---
sidebar: auto
---
# Exam 2022-08-13
Here you find sample answers and marking guidelines to the questions on the exam 2022-08-13.

---

Start by reading through all questions.

Max score is 30 points.

* For grade 3, 40% of max score (12 points) is required
* For grade 4, 60% of max score (18 points) is required
* For grade 5, 80% of max score (24 points) is required

You are not allowed to use anything else except:

* The computer you sit at to only answer the questions on this exam
* A dictionary to translate to/from English from/to your native language
* Pen and paper to sketch with (does not need to be submitted)

Write your answers in either English or Swedish. If you write your answers in Swedish, make sure to not introduce any translation confusement. **Write proper sentences (spelling, upper/lower case characters, punctuation, etc.).** Answers that do not do this good enough/are vague/are not understandable cannot receive full score on the questions.

Answers that are more or less copies of sample answers given to you or copies of text found somewhere else will be rewarded 0 points. Use your own words to answer the questions.

Good luck!




## HTTP

### Question 1 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In an HTTP request, is it better to send data to the server in the query string instead of in the body of the request? Or is it better to do vice versa? Or what? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

None of them is better than the other, because they serve different purposes. If the data identifies which resource the request is about, then it should be part of the query string. If the data instead is part of a resource that should be sent to the server, then it should be in the body of the request.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer and valid justification
* -0.1 point for saying strange thing

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 2 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Specify the status code that should be sent back in HTTP when:

1. The request was successfully carried out, and the requested resource is sent back in the body of the response (i.e. a general OK status code)
2. The request was not carried out because there is something wrong with the request (a general error)
3. The request was not carried out because the server couldn't carry it out (a general error)

You will get:

* 0.33 points for each correct status code

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

1. `200`
2. `400`
3. `500`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.33 points for each correct status code

</template>
</ExamQuestion>





### Question 3 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Does it make sense for the server to use the header `Content-Type` in an HTTP response? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Yes, it makes sense when the server sends back a resource to the client (the `Content-Type` header indicates which data format the resource is written in in the body nof the response).

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer and valid justification
* -0.1 points for saying something that is not true

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## HTML



### Question 4 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Place the lines of code below in such order that they form a valid HTML5 document (only place one line of code in each box).

* `<head>`
* `<h1>Welcome!</h1>`
* `</body>`
* `<title>Welcome!</title>`
* `<!DOCTYPE html>`
* `</html>`
* `</head>`
* `<html>`
* `<body>`

You will get:

* 1 point for all in correct order

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <title>Welcome!</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Welcome!</h1>
    </body>
</html>
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for all in correct order

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 5 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what the HTML tags `tr` and `td` represent respectively.

You will get:

* 0.5 points for each correct explanation
* -0.5 points for each incorrect explanation
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

`tr` represents a *table row*.

`td` represents *table data* (i.e. a table cell; a column in a table row)

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for each correct explanation
    * 0.25 points for saying `td` represents a column
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 6 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name 4 different attributes one can use in an `<input>` element. The attributes may not be global attributes (so `class`, `id`, etc. aren't accepted).

You will get:

* 0.25 points for each correct name
* -0.25 points for each incorrect name
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* `type`
* `name`
* `placeholder`
* `value`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.25 points for each correct name
* -0.25 points for each incorrect name
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 7 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Below is a small part of the HTML code found on a webpage.

```html
<p>
    Alice has written many blogposts. Feel free to read her 3 latest ones on
    <a href="https://blogposts.com/blogposts?author=Alice&limit=3">blogposts.com</a>
    if you want.
</p>
```

Something is wrong in the HTML code above and should be corrected. What? And what would the correct code look like?

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The problem is that the `&` symbol has special meaning in HTML (to escape characters), and can't be used as it is. So, in the `href` attribute, `&` should be replaced with its character entity, `&amp;`.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.75 points for describing the error and the solution
* 0.25 points for knowing `&` should be replaced with `&amp;`

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 8 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

`<p style="font-size: 2em; font-weight: bold;">The title</p>` kind of looks the same as `<h1>The title</h1>`. But even so, it's better to use the latter when showing a title on a webpage. Explain why.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

By using `<h1>` you have properly marked up your data as a title/header. This is something clients can use when interpreting the webpage. For example, screen readers can tell the user that `The title` is a title when `<h1>` is used. If `<p>` is used instead, the screen reader would think this is a paragraph, and would say so to the user, which is wrong.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for semantic meaning

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## CSS



### Question 9 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

What is what in the CSS code below?

```css
css{
    size: 2em;
}
```

Pair each piece of CSS code with the name of the CSS syntax.

CSS names:

* Rule
* Selector
* Declaration
* Property
* Value

CSS code:

* `.css{ size: 2em; }`
* `.css`
* `size: 2em;`
* `size`
* `2em`

You will get:

* 0.2 points for each correct pair

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* Rule: `.css{ size: 2em; }`
* Selector: `.css`
* Declaration: `size: 2em;`
* Property: `size`
* Value: `2em`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.2 points for each correct pair

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 10 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what a pseudo class is in CSS. Also name one, and explain how that one works.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A pseudo class is something an HTML element gets when it is in a certain state. For example, when the user places the computer mouse over an element, the element gets the `hover` pseudo class, which we then can use in CSS selectors to style the element in a specific way when the user has placed the mouse over it.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for explaining what a *pseudo class* is
* 0.25 points for naming one
* 0.25 points for describing how that one works

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 11 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Here is some CSS code:

```css
div .div #div{
    font-size: 2em;
}
```

Write HTML code that, with the help of the CSS code above, would contain some large text.

**Note**: You don't need to write an entire HTML document, just the what's inside `<body>`, including `<body>`.

**Note**: Don't write any extra HTML elements not needed (provide a minimal solution).

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```html
<body>
    <div>
        <div class="div">
            <div id="div">
                I'll be red!
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</body>
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for an answer that works
* -0.2 points for an answer not including `<body>` as requested

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 12 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name 4 different properties in CSS.

You will get:

* 0 points for the first correct name
* 0.33 points for each correct name after the first correct
* -0.33 points for each wrong name
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* `font-size`
* `background-color`
* `font-style`
* `border`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0 points for the first correct name
* 0.33 points for each correct name after the first correct
* -0.33 points for each wrong name
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
</ExamQuestion>





## Website





### Question 13 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

HTTP contains the methods `DELETE` and `PUT`. Explain why most websites don't use these methods even when the requests are about deleting or updating a resource. 

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

There's no element in HTML we can use to send a `DELETE` or `PUT` requests, so they are impossible to use (unless one use client-side JavaScript).

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 14 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name (as good as you can) and explain 2 different middleware functions one can use in an Express application (for example middleware functions you have used in your project that you didn't create yourself).

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The middleware `bodyParser.urlencoded()` will check if the `Content-Type` of an incoming HTTP request is `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`, and if so parse the body of the request in that format and populate `request.body` with the parsed data.

The middleware `cookieParser()` will check if the incoming HTTP request has any `Cookie` header, and if so parse those cookies and populate `request.cookies` with them.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.25 points for each name
* 0.25 points for each explanation

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 15 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain how a middleware is implemented in Express. Be detailed.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A middleware in Express is implemented as a function that will be invoked with three arguments:

* the first argument is an object representing the incoming HTTP request (the `req`/`request` parameter)
* the second argument is an object representing the outgoing HTTP response (the `res`/`response` parameter)
* the third argument is a function one can call to invoke the next middleware in the sequence of middlewares the app consists of (the `next` parameter)

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.25 points for implemented as a function
* 0.25 points for describing the `request` parameter
* 0.25 points for describing the `response` parameter
* 0.25 points for describing the `next` parameter

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 16 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what a session is, and describe how sessions can be implemented on a website.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A session is the collection of information associated with one client stored on the server. When the server needs to remember something about a client, it creates a session for the client, and put the information it needs to remember about the client in that session. Each session also has its own unique identifier known as the session id, and the server can in the HTTP response ask the client to create a cookie storing the session id. Then when the client send requests to the server in the future, it will pass along the cookie with the session id, and the server can then look up the information it has stored about that client in the session with that id when carrying out the request.

The sessions can simply be stored in a JSON file, or in a database, or something else.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for a session stores data about a client
* 0.25 points for sessions are stored on the server
* 0.5 points for each session has a unique identifier (session id)
* 0.5 points for server tells client to create cookie with session id
* 0.25 points for client sends cookie with session id to server

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Security




### Question 17 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what a XSS vulnerability is. 

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A XSS vulnerability on a website is when a user can send some data to the website (like a username), which then is interpreted as part of the client-side code on the website when other clients retrieve the data. This way, a hacker can write arbitrary client-side code that is executed by clients visiting the website.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct explanation

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 18 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain why just hashing a password is usually not enough when you want to store it. 

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

If a hacker comes over our stored hashed passwords, she can easily use a  rainbow table to look up what the original passwords are (for common passwords (simple and short)). Therefore, one should also use dynamic salt when hashing the password, so not one and the same rainbow table can be used for all the hashed passwords, but the hacker needs to generate a new one for each hashed password.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 19 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

On a website with user accounts, the following code is used to handle login requests:

```js
// ...
app.post('/login', function(request, response){
    
    const username = request.body.username
    const password = request.body.password
    
    const query = `
        SELECT
            *
        FROM
            accounts
        WHERE
            username = "`+username+`" AND
            password = "`+password+`"
        LIMIT 1
    `
    
    // The query is sent to the database, if we get back a
    // matching account we store it in session to remember
    // which account the user logged in to, etc.

    // ...
    
})
// ...
```

Enter a username and a password one can use to login to a random account (whichever that might exist), no matter which username or password that account has (i.e. the first account testing for a match in the database).

**Note**: Be explicit about what you enter as username and what you enter as password.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Username: `whatever` \
Password: `whatever" OR "1"="1`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for an answer that largely works
* -0.5 points for having a space in a value that shouldn't be there

</template>
</ExamQuestion>





### Question 20 (4p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain how anti-forgery tokens securely protect against cross-site request forgery attacks. The answer is expected to contain many details, such as clearly explaining why anti-forgery tokens work.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A cross-site request forgery attack is when the user's web browser is tricked into sending an HTTP request the user don't want to send, for example a request to the user's bank website to transfer money from the user's (the currently logged in user's) account to the hackers account. To protect against this attack on the server side, we need some type of proof that the user really wanted to send the HTTP request we received from the user, and that the request wasn't send from due to bad client-side JavaScript on another page the user visited.

Thanks to how HTTP works and the same-origin policy, client-side JavaScript can not read responses for requests it sends to other website. So the bad client-side JavaScript can't retrieve sensitive information about the user from other websites. But it can send requests to other websites, and it's only `POST` requests it can abuse here, since `GET` requests shouldn't change anything on the server. So, it's only when the server receives a `POST` request it needs to check if the request was intentionally sent by the user or not.

The only way to send a `POST` request in HTML is by using a `<form>`. So, if the `POST` request was intentionally sent by the user, the user must first have sent a `GET` request to obtain the form. When the server receives that `GET` request, it generates and remembers an anti-forgery token (for example a random string), and adds it to the form in a hidden `<input>`. This way, the server will receive the anti-forgery token when the user intentionally submits the form and sends the `POST` request (the server will compare the submitted anti-forgery token with the one it has remembered, and if they match, it knows the request was intentionally sent by the user). 

Bad client-side JS can't get around this. It can send a `GET` request for the form, and the server will generate and remember a new anti-forgery token, but the client-side JS can't see which token that is, because the same-origin policy doesn't allow it to read the response, so it can't know which valid anti-forgery token to send in the `POST` request, so it can no longer send `POST` requests the server will carry out.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for explaining the procedure of using anti-forgery tokens
* 3 points for explaining how anti-forgery tokens stop bad client-side JS to send bad requests

</template>
</ExamQuestion>





## JavaScript



### Question 21 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Implement the JavaScript function `areAllEven()` that receives an array with integers as argument and returns `true` if all the integers are even, otherwise `false`. To check if `anInteger` is even, you can use the expression `anInteger % 2 == 0`.

Sample usage:

```js
areAllEven([2, 3]) // --> false
areAllEven([2, 4, 6, 8, 2]) // --> true
areAllEven([1, 2, 3]) // --> false
areAllEven([]) // --> true
```

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
function areAllEven(integers){
    
    // If we find an odd integer, return back false.
    for(const integer in integers){
        if(integer % 2 != 0){
            return false
        }
    }
    
    // No odd integer found, so all must be even, return back true.
    return true
    
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for a solution that works/is very close to working
* -0.1 points for calling the iteration variable `anInteger` (one don't put `an` in front of all variables storing a single value)
* -0.1 points for using `var`/`let`/`const`/global variables wrong
* -0.1 points for `.size()` instead of `.length`
* -0.15 points for using `for in` to iterate over values
* -0.2 points for iterating over indexes instead of values

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 22 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In JavaScript, a movie with a title and a runtime (in minutes), can be represented as an object like this:

```js
const movie = {
    title: "Shrek",
    runtimeInMinutes: 98
}
```

Implement the function `getUniqueMovies()`, which receives an array with movie objects as argument. The array may contain duplicates (movie objects with the same `title` and same `runtimeInMinutes`). The function should create and return a new array that only contains unique movie objects.

If it's suitable to create helper functions, do that. The order of the movies in the new array does not matter.

Sample usage:

```js
getUniqueMovies([
    {title: "Shrek", runtimeInMinutes: 98},
    {title: "Shrek", runtimeInMinutes: 58},
    {title: "Shrek", runtimeInMinutes: 98},
    {title: "GoldenEye", runtimeInMinutes: 98}
]) // -->
/* [
    {title: "Shrek", runtimeInMinutes: 98},
    {title: "Shrek", runtimeInMinutes: 58},
    {title: "GoldenEye", runtimeInMinutes: 98}
] */
```

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
function getUniqueMovies(movies){
    
    const uniqueMovies = []

    for(const movie of movies){
        if(!doesMoviesContainMovie(uniqueMovies, movie)){
            uniqueMovies.push(movie)
        }
    }

    return uniqueMovies
    
}

function doesMoviesContainMovie(movies, movieLookingFor){

    for(const movie of movies){
        if(areMoviesTheSame(movie, movieLookingFor)){
            return true
        }
    }

    return false

}

function areMoviesTheSame(movie1, movie2){
    return (
        movie1.title == movie2.title &&
        movie1.runtimeInMinutes == movie2.runtimeInMinutes
    )
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for a solution that (largely) works
* -0.1 points for unnecessary `uniqueMovies.length == 0` check
* -0.2 points for using `var`/`let`/`const`/global variables wrong
* -0.2 points for using `for in` to iterate over values
* -0.25 points for `getUniqueMovies()` returning strings
* -0.5 points for not having at least one re-usable helper function

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 23 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

The asynchronous function `setTimeout()` can be used to tell the web browser to call a function a specific number of milliseconds later. Example:

```js
setTimeout(function(){
    console.log("This line of code is executed after 1 second.")
}, 1000)
```

The asynchronous function `getGoldenEyeMovie()` can be used to fetch the GoldenEye movie from a server. Example:

```js
getGoldenEyeMovie(function(goldenEyeMovie){
    // goldenEyeMovie = {
    //   id: 1,
    //   title: "GoldenEye",
    //   ...
    // }
})
```

`getGoldenEyeMovie()` will always succeed to fetch the movie, but it can take a long time. Implement the asynchronous function `getGoldenEyeMovieWithinSeconds()`, which receives a number of seconds as argument, and it should try to fetch the movie within that number of seconds. If it can, the callback function should be called with that movie object as argument. Otherwise it should be called with `null` as argument.

Sample usage:

```js
getGoldenEyeMovieWithinSeconds(3, function(goldenEyeMovie){
    if(goldenEyeMovie == null){
        // Failed to fetch the movie within 3 seconds.
    }else{
        // goldenEyeMovie = {
        //   id: 1,
        //   title: "GoldenEye",
        //   ...
        // }
    }
})
```

Important implementation details:

* The callback function should only be called once (as soon as it's too late, or as soon as the movie has been fetched within the allowed time limit)

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
function getGoldenEyeMovieWithinSeconds(seconds, callback){
    
    let hasCalledCallback = false

    getGoldenEyeMovie(function(goldenEyeMovie){
        
        if(!hasCalledCallback){
            hasCalledCallback = true
            callback(goldenEyeMovie)
        }

    })

    setTimeout(function(){

        if(!hasCalledCallback){
            hasCalledCallback = true
            callback(null)
        }

    }, seconds*1000)
    
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for a solution that (largely) works
* -0.2 points for missing `function` keyword

</template>
</ExamQuestion>