---
sidebar: auto
---
# Exam 2022-01-11
Here you find sample answers and marking guidelines to the questions on the exam 2022-01-11.

<!--
::: danger Point reduction for improper usage of upper-/lowercase characters
As explained in the exam instructions, answers not properly using upper-/lowercase characters will receive point reduction. This time it has only been set to `0.1` points for each answer that do not properly use upper-/lowercase characters, such as answers written with only lowercase characters. Next time this will likely increase.
:::
-->

---

Start by reading through all questions.

Max score is 30 points.

* For grade 3, 40% of max score (12 points) is required.
* For grade 4, 60% of max score (18 points) is required.
* For grade 5, 80% of max score (24 points) is required.

You are not allowed to use anything else except:

* The computer you sit at to only answer the questions on this exam.
* A dictionary to translate to/from English from/to your native language.

Write your answers in either English or Swedish. If you write your answers in Swedish, make sure to not introduce any translation confusement. **Write proper sentences (spelling, upper/lower case characters, punctuation, etc.).** Answers that do not do this good enough/are vague/are not understandable cannot receive full score on the questions.

Answers that are more or less copies of sample answers given to you or copies of text found somewhere else will be rewarded 0 points. Use your own words to answer the questions.

Good luck!

---

## HTTP

### Question 1 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name the method one should use in HTTP when the request is about:

1. Deleting a resource
2. Retrieving a resource
3. Creating a new resource

**Note**: This question is about HTTP, and not about websites.

You will get:

* 0.33 points for each correct name

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

1. `DELETE`
2. `GET`
3. `POST`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.33 points for each correct name

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 2 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Specify the status code that should be sent back in HTTP when:

1. The code on the server crashes
2. The request was successfully carried out, and the requested resource is sent back in the body of the response
3. The URI in the request identifies a resource that doesn't exist

You will get:

* 0.33 points for each correct status code

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

1. `500`
2. `200`
3. `404`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.33 points for each correct status code

</template>
</ExamQuestion>





### Question 3 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what the `Accept` header is used for in HTTP, give an example of a value it can have, and explain how that value should be interpreted.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The `Accept` header is used in HTTP requests to tell the server which data format the client wants the body of the response to be in. It can for example have the value `text/html`, which means that the client wants the body of the response to be in HTML. 

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.33 points for general description
* 0.33 points for sample value
* 0.33 points for description of sample value

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## HTML



### Question 4 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Place the lines of code below in such order that they form a valid HTML5 document (only place one line of code in each box).

* `<head>`
* `<h1>Welcome!</h1>`
* `</body>`
* `<title>Welcome!</title>`
* `<!DOCTYPE html>`
* `</html>`
* `</head>`
* `<html>`
* `<body>`

You will get:

* 1 point for all in correct order

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <title>Welcome!</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Welcome!</h1>
    </body>
</html>
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for all in correct order

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 5 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name 2 different HTML tags that have an attribute called `href`.

You will get:

* 0.5 points for each correct name
* -0.5 points for each incorrect name
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* `a`
* `link`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for each correct name
* -0.5 points for each incorrect name
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 6 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Write 4 different values the `type` attribute in an `<input>` element can have.

You will get:

* 0.25 points for each valid value
* -0.25 points for each invalid value
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* `text`
* `password`
* `hidden`
* `checkbox`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.25 points for each valid value
* -0.25 points for each invalid value
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 7 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Below is a small part of the HTML code found on a webpage.

```html
<p>Arsenal is no longer a good football team (>_<) Once they were the best team in all of England.</p>
```

Explain what's wrong with the HTML code, and suggest how it can be improved.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The problem with the HTML code is that `>` and `<` are used as text characters, which they shouldn't be, since they have special meaning in HTML (to indicate the start and end of tags). These should instead be expressed as their character entities, i.e. as `&gt;` and `&lt;` instead.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for explaining what's wrong
* 0.25 points for suggesting a solution to the problem
* 0.25 points for solution mentioning `&gt;` or `&lt;`

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 8 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

David has the following HTML code on a webpage (`[...]` means that not everything is shown):

```html
[...]

<p>I grow up in Habo, where nothing interesting ever happens. But I managed to survive and [...]</p>

<p>When I got my first job and had earned some money, I quickly moved to a better village where [...]</p>

[...]
```

When he looks at the webpage in a web browser, he realizes he wants to have more space between the paragraphs, so he adds two `<br>` elements between the paragraphs in the HTML code. After that it looks good in the web browser.

Is using two `<br>` elements a good solution in this case? If yes, why? If no, why not, and what would be a good solution?

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

No, it's not good a solution to use two `<br>` elements, because their semantic meaning is to add line breaks to text. In this case, he doesn't want to have more line breaks in the text, but bigger gap between the paragraphs. Adding more vertical margins to the paragraph elements (using CSS) is a better solution.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for why it's bad to use two `<br>` (no semantic meaning)
* 0.5 points for a good solution (margins in CSS)
    * Only 0.4 points for not mentioning *margin* (or possibly *padding*, although margin is more suitable in this case)

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## CSS



### Question 9 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

What is what in the CSS code below?

```css
*{
    color: red;
}
```

Pair each piece of CSS code with the name of the CSS syntax.

CSS names:

* Rule
* Selector
* Declaration
* Property
* Value

CSS code:

* `*{ color: red; }`
* `*`
* `color: red;`
* `color`
* `red`

You will get:

* 0.2 points for each correct pair
* -0.2 points for each wrong pair
* 0 points for unanswered pairs
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* Rule: `*{ color: red; }`
* Selector: `*`
* Declaration: `color: red;`
* Property: `color`
* Value: `red`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.2 points for each correct pair
* -0.2 points for each wrong pair
* 0 points for unanswered pairs
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 10 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what `hover` is in CSS.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

`hover` is a pseudo class in CSS, which is a special class an element has when the element is in a certain state. An element gets the `hover` pseudo class when the user has the mouse cursor over the element.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for describing it as *pseudo class* or mentioning *certain state*, or similar
* 0.5 points for describing which *certain state* `hover` is (i.e. mouse over element)

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 11 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Here is some CSS code:

```css
div.p#span{
    color: red;
}
```

Write HTML code that, with the help of the CSS code above, would contain some red text.

**Note**: You don't need to write an entire HTML document, just the what's inside `<body>`, including `<body>`.

**Note**: Don't write any extra HTML elements not needed (provide a minimal solution).

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```html
<body>
    <div class="p" id="span">
        I'll be red!
    </div>
</body>
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for an answer that works
* -0.2 points for an answer not including `<body>` as requested

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 12 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name 4 different properties in CSS.

You will get:

* 0 points for the first correct correct names
* 0.33 points for each correct name after the first correct
* -0.33 points for each wrong name
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* `font-size`
* `background-color`
* `font-style`
* `border`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0 points for the correct correct names
* 0.33 points for each correct name after the first correct
* -0.33 points for each wrong name
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
</ExamQuestion>





## Website





### Question 13 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

On a website, an admin can submit a `<form>` to the server, which then in turn will send a news letter email to all the website's users. When the `<form>` is submitted, which method should the HTTP request to the server have? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The `<form>` should be submitted with the `POST` method, since the goal of the request is to achieve a side-effect on the server (to send emails). The other option is to use the `GET` method, but that's not suitable since `GET` requests should not have side-effects.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer and valid justification (*POST because the request has a side-effect* and *it can't be a GET request because the goal of the request is not to fetch something so only the POST option remains* are valid justifications)

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 14 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Alice has implemented her own website in Express. After she has published it on the web and it has been running for 2 months, it starts to take long time for her to get back responses from it. She's thinking it might be because many other people on the web has discovered and started to use her website too. To see if that's the case, she wants to change the source code to make it log the URI and method of all incoming HTTP requests, but she doesn't know how to add that functionality.

Explain to Alice what a good way is to add such functionality to her Express application. You don't need to write any code, just a general explanation.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Alice needs to add a middleware function to her Express application that runs for all incoming HTTP request. In this middleware she needs to look at the `request` object to figure out which URI and method that are used in the request, and log them, either using `console.log()` and redirect the output from the application to a file, or by writing the URL and method directly to a file (one line for each HTTP request).

She can then open the files to see the logged values.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for adding a middleware running for all incoming HTTP requests
* 0.5 points for explaining how she "logs" the desired info so she later can read it

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 15 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

An Express application consists of a sequence of middlewares. Does the order of the middlewares matter? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Yes, often the middlewares aren't independent of each other, and then the order matters. For example, a middleware making use of the user's session must come after the middleware that populates the `request` object with the user's session.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer and valid justification

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 16 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

On Bob's website, whenever someone tries to access a page that only a logged in user should be able to access, he currently sends back HTML code showing the text `You need to be logged in to view this page.` to the user. He wants to change this to instead take the user to the login page, and after the user has successfully logged in there, the user should be taken back to the page the user initially tried to access, whichever that is.

Bob is not sure how to implement this new functionality. Explain to Bob which changes he needs to make to his current implementation to make it work as he wants. Be as specific as possible, but since you don't know which language or framework he is using, you can't say any details about those things, so just describe the general procedure in detail.

If you need to make some assumptions about his current solution to write a good answer, then clearly describe which assumptions you make.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

When a user is not logged and tries to access a page only logged in users should be able to access, he needs to send back a redirect response that redirects the user to the login page, e.g. `/login`. He also needs to remember which page he should redirect the user back to after the user has successfully logged in. He can do that by adding a querystring parameter in the redirection, e.g. use `/login?redirectUrl=THE_URL_TO_THE_PAGE_THE_USER_WANTED_TO_ACCESS` instead.

Then, when the server receives a login request with the correct credentials, he needs to redirect the user back to the page indicated by the `redirectUrl` parameter by sending back a redirection response leading to that page. Then, when the web browser has sent a GET request for the `THE_URL_TO_THE_PAGE_THE_USER_WANTED_TO_ACCESS` page, the user would finally arrived at the desired page logged in.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for an answer that is largely OK
* -1 point for not explaining how the web app can remember `THE_URL_TO_THE_PAGE_THE_USER_WANTED_TO_ACCESS`
* -0.5 points for remembering `THE_URL_TO_THE_PAGE_THE_USER_WANTED_TO_ACCESS` in the user's session
* -0.5 points for remembering `THE_URL_TO_THE_PAGE_THE_USER_WANTED_TO_ACCESS` in a cookie
* -0.25 points for redirecting like `/login/THE_URL_TO_THE_PAGE_THE_USER_WANTED_TO_ACCESS` (`THE_URL_TO_THE_PAGE_THE_USER_WANTED_TO_ACCESS` is "extra data", and not an identifier for the login page)
* -0.25 points for each redirect response not clearly mentioned

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Security




### Question 17 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Hashing is overall more secure than encryption. HTTPS makes use of encryption. Is it a good idea to replace encryption in HTTPS with hashing in an attempt to make HTTPS even more secure? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

No, it's not a good idea, because in HTTPS, the goal is to make something readable again after it has been encrypted/hashed, but if you use hashing, you can't (easily) make it readable again, since hashing is an operation that has been designed to not be reversible.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer and valid justification (not doable in practice/the suggested idea makes no sense)

::: danger Hashing VS Encryption
Some suggests that encryption is more secure than hashing. It's rather the other way around; encryption has been designed to be reversible, and many hashing algorithms has on purpose been designed to be slow, so, in general, hashing is much more secure than encryption, since it is much harder to reverse.
:::

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 18 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Using bcrypt, the hash value of:

* `fhjr` is ` $2a$12$n2X0JVB1xhE9riOMSkNvtuFsDnkPJJcfvBJw3.a1p/NyVds8.pxXG `
* `skruqpldntrjeska` is `$2a$12$4JXX/1a3mlM4tUqnYkxgq.tHxQ/dfmL1nQK458MWjuh5NrN0sKGa.`

Looking at the two hash values, figuring out which the original passwords are seems quite hard in both cases, but one of them is much easier than the other. Which one is easier to figure out, and why is that one easier to figure out than the other?

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

To figure out the original password, a hacker can simply try to hash (using bcrypt) different strings, and see if any of them has the same hash value as the sought one. When a match is found, the hacker knows which the original password is (the random string she just hashed). 

The password for `$2a$12$n2X0JVB1xhE9riOMSkNvtuFsDnkPJJcfvBJw3.a1p/NyVds8.pxXG` will be much easier to figure out this way since the original password for this one is much shorter (consists of only 4 characters). A hacker will be able to much faster compute the hash values for all strings consisting of 4 characters compared to all strings consisting of 16 characters for `skruqpldntrjeska`.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>



</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 19 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

On a website with user accounts, the following code is used to handle login requests:

```js
// ...
app.post('/login', function(request, response){
    
    const username = request.body.username
    const password = request.body.password
    
    const query = `
        SELECT
            *
        FROM
            accounts
        WHERE
            username = "`+username+`" AND
            password = "`+password+`"
        LIMIT 1
    `
    
    // The query is sent to the database, if we get back a
    // matching account we store it in session to remember
    // which account the user logged in to, etc.
    
})
// ...
```

Enter a username and a password one can use to login to the account that has the password `abc123`, no matter which username that account has.

**Note**: Be explicit about what you enter as username and what you enter as password.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Username: `" OR password = "abc123` \
Password: `abc123`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for an answer that largely works
* -0.5 points for having a space in a value that shouldn't be there


</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 20 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Is security improved by adding anti-forgery tokens to login forms and logout forms? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

No, that would not increase security, since these forms can't be used to do any dangerous requests for the user.

For example, if a hacker manages to get a user's web browser to unwillingly send a logout request, the only consequence is that the user will be logged out. A bit inconvenient for the the user (she has to manually login again), but otherwise no harm done to the user.

And if a hacker manages to get a user's web browser to unwillingly send a login request, the most probable outcome is that the request will be denied, because the hacker doesn't know the user's username and password. And if the hacker would know these credentials, then she would probably login to the user's account from the hacker's own computer, which would be way easier than trying to exploit valid credentials in a CSRF attack.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

1 point for an answer that has a valid justification (just saying something like *tokens always makes it more secure*, or explaining how tokens work, is not enough)

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 21 (3p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Can it be dangerous to open an email in a web browser that contains an image? Justify your answer, and be detailed.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Yes, that can be dangerous if a website incorrectly use GET requests to make changes on the server. Then the following can happen:

1. The user logins on `bank.com`, at which point `bank.com` creates a new session for the user to remember which account she logged in to, and then sends back a cookie with the user's session id to the user's web browser, which the web browser then remembers
2. The user opens the email in her web browser, at which point the web browser sends an HTTP GET request (with the cookie (the session id)) to retrieve the image from the server
3. If the image URL is something like `bank.com/transfer?amount=3000to=hackers-account`, then the web browser would send this GET request to `bank.com`, and `bank.com` would transfer $3000 from the logged in bank account (according to the user's session) to the hacker's account

That is, just by opening the email and load the image, the user could lose money on her bank account if her bank's website incorrectly use GET requests to make changes on the server. But if the bank correctly only use POST requests to make changes on the server, then opening an email with an image in a web browser won't be dangerous (at least can't the described vulnerability be exploited).

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 3 points for correct answer and valid justification
* 0 points for just saying *yes, the GET request does not have to be to an image, but can be a bad request* (have to explain how a GET request can be bad)

</template>
</ExamQuestion>





## JavaScript



### Question 22 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Implement the JavaScript function `getSum()` that receives an array with numbers as argument and returns the sum of all the numbers. 

Sample usage:

```js
getSum([1, 2, 3]) // --> 6
getSum([5, 2, 3]) // --> 10
getSum([33]) // --> 33
```

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
function getSum(numbers){
    let sum = 0
    for(const number of numbers){
        sum += number
    }
    return sum
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for a solution that works/is very close to working
* -0.1 points for using `var`/`let`/`const`/global variables wrong
* -0.1 points for using a bad variable name (e.g. `arr`, `array`, `arrayOfIntegers` (names should describe the value, not be the datatype, and integer != number))
* -0.1 points for spelling `getSum` wrong
* -0.1 points for being inconsistent with usage of `;`
* -0.1 points for not initializing the sum variable to `0`
* -0.2 points for iterating over indexes instead of values

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 23 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In JavaScript, a movie with a title and a runtime (in minutes), can be represented as an object like this:

```js
const movie = {
    title: "Shrek",
    runtimeInMinutes: 98
}
```

Implement the function `getLongMovies()`, which receives an array with movie objects as argument, and that returns a new array containing only the movie objects that are strictly longer than the average runtime of the movies it receives.

If it's suitable to create helper functions, do that.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
function getLongMovies(movies){
    
    const averageRuntimeInMinutes = getAverageRuntimeInMinutes(movies)
    const longMovies = []
    
    for(const movie of movies){
        if(averageRuntimeInMinutes < movie.runtimeInMinutes){
            longMovies.push(movie)
        }
    }
    
    return movies
    
}

function getAverageRuntimeInMinutes(movies){
    
    let runtimeInMinutesSum = 0
    
    for(const movie of movies){
        runtimeInMinutesSum += movie.runtimeInMinutes
    }
    
    const averageRuntimeInMinutes = runtimeInMinutesSum / movies.length
    
    return averageRuntimeInMinutes
    
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for a solution that (largely) works
* -0.1 points for being inconsistent with how `;` is used
* -0.1 points for calling `append()` instead of `push()`
* -0.1 points for using `length()` instead of `length`
* -0.1 points for being inconsistent with names (e.g. `movieArr` and `longMovies`)
* -0.2 points for putting `;` after `}` in loop
* -0.2 points for using `var`/`let`/`const`/global variables wrong
* -0.2 points for indentation error
* -0.2 points for using `for in` to iterate over values
* -0.25 points for not returning anything from function
* -0.25 points for calling `getAverageRuntimeInMinutes()` multiple times (e.g. in a loop)
* -0.4 points for iterating over indexes instead of values
* -0.5 points for not having at least 1 suitable helper function

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




### Question 24 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Create the function `createCounter()`, that receives two integers as arguments:

* The first argument represents the counter's start value
* The second argument represents how much the counter should be incremented each time it should be incremented

The function should create and send back a new function. When that new function is called, the counter should be incremented by the amount specified by the second argument, and the current counter value should then be returned.

Sample usage:

```js
const counterA = createCounter(0, 1)
counterA() // --> 1
counterA() // --> 2
counterA() // --> 3
const counterB = createCounter(10, 2)
counterB() // --> 12
counterB() // --> 14
counterA() // --> 4
counterB() // --> 16
```

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
function createCounter(startValue, incrementStep){
    
    let counter = startValue
    
    return function(){
        counter += incrementStep
        return counter
    }
    
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for a solution that (largely) works
* -0.2 points for missing `function` keyword

</template>
</ExamQuestion>