---
sidebar: auto
---
# Exam 2021-10-18
Here you find sample answers and marking guidelines to the questions on the exam 2021-10-18.

<!--
::: danger Point reduction for improper usage of upper-/lowercase characters
As explained in the exam instructions, answers not properly using upper-/lowercase characters will receive point reduction. This time it has only been set to `0.1` points for each answer that do not properly use upper-/lowercase characters, such as answers written with only lowercase characters. Next time this will likely increase.
:::
-->

---

Start by reading through all questions.

Max score is 30 points.

* For grade 3, 40% of max score (12 points) is required.
* For grade 4, 60% of max score (18 points) is required.
* For grade 5, 80% of max score (24 points) is required.

You are not allowed to use anything else except:

* The computer you sit at to only answer the questions on this exam.
* A dictionary to translate to/from English from/to your native language.

Write your answers in either English or Swedish. If you write your answers in Swedish, make sure to not introduce any translation confusement. **Write proper sentences (spelling, upper/lower case characters, punctuation, etc.).** Answers that do not do this good enough/are vague/are not understandable cannot receive full score on the questions.

Answers that are more or less copies of sample answers given to you or copies of text found somewhere else will be rewarded 0 points. Use your own words to answer the questions.

Good luck!

---


## Question 1 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name the method one should use in HTTP when the request is about:

* Retrieving a resource
* Creating a new resource
* Deleting a resource

**Note**: This question is about HTTP, and not about websites.

You will get:

* 0.33 points for each correct name

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* Retrieving a resource: `GET`
* Creating a new resource: `POST`
* Deleting a resource: `DELETE`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.33 points for each correct name

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 2 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Specify the status code that should be sent back in HTTP when:

* The requested resource doesn't exist
* The server encountered an unknown problem and therefor can't carry out the request
* The requested resource exists and is being sent back in the body of the response

You will get:

* 0.33 points for each correct status code

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* The requested resource doesn't exist: `404`
* The server encountered an unknown problem and therefor can't carry out the request: `500`
* The requested resource exists and is being sent back in the body of the response: `200`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.33 points for each correct status code

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 3 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name 2 different HTTP headers, explain what they mean/what they represent, explain if they can be used in requests or responses (or both), and give example of a value they can have.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

`Content-Length` can be used in both HTTP requests and HTTP responses, and its value describes how many bytes the body consists of, for example `20`.

`Content-Type` can be used in both HTTP requests and HTTP responses, and its value describes in which data format the body is written, for example `text/html`.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.125 points for each correct name
* 0.125 points for each correct explanation of what they represent
* 0.125 points for each correct can be used in requests/responses
* 0.125 points for each correct sample value

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 4 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In HTTP, clients can pass data to the server both in the querystring (part of the URI) and in the body of the HTTP request. Explain when they should use which one. 

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Since the querystring is part of the URI, and the URI is used to identify the resource(s) the request is about, the data should be passed in the querystring only when it's used to identify the resource(s) the request is about, such as when searching.

The data should be passed in the body of the request when the data is not used to identify which resource(s) the request is about, but represent some additional information that is part of a request the server needs to carry out the request, for example when the data represents a new resource that should be created on the server.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for correct explanation
* 1 point for saying something like `GET` = retrieve data = URI, `POST` = send data = body (this is how we often use it, but the question is general and not for these two specific methods)
* -0.5 points for claiming that body of request is more secure than querystring without justifying why

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 5 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Place the lines of code below in such order that they form a valid HTML5 document (only place one line of code in each box).

* `<head>`
* `<h1>Welcome!</h1>`
* `</body>`
* `<title>Welcome!</title>`
* `<!DOCTYPE html>`
* `</html>`
* `</head>`
* `<html>`
* `<body>`

You will get:

* 1 point for all in correct order

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <title>Welcome!</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Welcome!</h1>
    </body>
</html>
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for all in correct order

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 6 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name 4 different HTML tags that can cause the Web Browser to send an HTTP GET request.

You will get:

* 0.25 points for each correct name
* -0.25 points for each incorrect name
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* `a`
* `form`
* `img`
* `link`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.25 points for each correct name
* -0.25 points for each incorrect name
* 0.15 points for `a href` (unclear what you think the *name* of the tag is)
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 7 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name 4 different attributes that are valid to use in an `<input>` element.

You will get:

* 0.25 points for each valid name
* -0.25 points for each invalid name
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* `type`
* `value`
* `id`
* `class`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.25 points for each correct name
* -0.25 points for each incorrect name
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 8 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

On a webpage, explain why it's better to use a `<form>` with a submit button to send an HTTP request to delete a resource instead of using a `<a>`.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

One can only send GET requests with `<a>`, and those requests shouldn't have any side-effects on the server. Therefor it's better to use `<form>` instead, through which one can send a POST request, that may have side-effects on the server.

(optimally one should send a DELETE requests, but one can't do that with any HTML element)

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.33 points for one should send a POST request
* 0.33 points for `<a>` can only send GET requests
* 0.33 points for `<form>` can send POST requests
* -0.1 points for claiming strange/untrue/irrelevant things

OR:

* 1 point for saying anti-forgery tokens can be used in `<form>` (those can be used in `<a>` too (e.g. in the query string), so not really a valid justification, but OK)

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 9 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

On a webpage, to display the `&` character you should write it as it's character entity instead, i.e. `&amp;`. Why?

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The `&` character has special meaning in HTML: to start a character entity (to express a character in a special way, like when you want the web browser to display `<` instead of interpreting it as the start of a tag, you write is as `&lt;`). If you really want the web browser to display `&`, you need to express `&` as its character entity (`&amp;`), otherwise the web browser would read `&` as the start of a character entity.


::: warning Answer the question
Many answers say something like *One can escape HTML code by using `&lt;`, and similar*, but that doesn't answer the question why one can't write `&` to display the `&` character.
:::

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 10 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

If you want a web browser to display a list of items like this:

* List Item 1
* List Item 2
* List Item 3
* List Item ...

You can use the following HTML code:

```html
<p> • List Item 1</p>
<p> • List Item 2</p>
<p> • List Item 3</p>
<p> • List Item ...</p>
```

Why is this not a good way to do it?

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

When the web browser renders the HTML code, it will look like a list to a human, but other tools reading our HTML code, such as web spiders/search engines, will not get the understanding that this is a list, but will instead read it as different paragraphs. By using HTML properly and mark this text as a list using `<ul>` and `<li>` instead of `<p>`, we improve the semantic, and these other tools will get a better understanding of our text.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for not using markup/semantic

::: warning Answer the question
Just saying it's more correct/better to use `<ul>` and `<li>` is not enough to get any points. The question was not *How should one do it?*, but *Why is it bad to use `<p>` this way?*

Feel free to mention that `<ul>` and `<li>` are better to use, but then you need to explain why they are better to use (markup/semantic).
:::

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 11 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

What is what in the CSS code below?

```css
p{
    color: red;
}
```

Pair each piece of CSS code with the name of the CSS syntax.

CSS names:

* Rule
* Selector
* Declaration
* Property
* Value

CSS code:

* `p{ color: red; }`
* `p`
* `color: red;`
* `color`
* `red`

You will get:

* 0.2 points for each correct pair
* -0.2 points for each wrong pair
* 0 points for unanswered pairs
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* Rule: `p{ color: red; }`
* Selector: `p`
* Declaration: `color: red;`
* Property: `color`
* Value: `red`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.2 points for each correct pair
* -0.2 points for each wrong pair
* 0 points for unanswered pairs
* at least 0 points on the question

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 12 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what a pseudo class can be used for in CSS. Then also name one, and explain how that one works.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Pseudo classes can be used in CSS selectors to match elements in specific states. For example, the `hover` pseudo class matches elements in the `hover` state, i.e. elements the mouse cursor is currently hovering over.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for can be used for
* 0.25 points for correct name
* 0.25 points for explanation

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 13 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Here is some CSS code:

```css
.spanspan div #p{
    color: red;
}
```

Write HTML code that, with the help of the CSS code above, would contain some red text.

**Note**: You don't need to write an entire HTML document, just the what's inside `<body>`, including `<body>`.

**Note**: Don't write any extra HTML elements not needed (provide a minimal solution).

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```html
<body>
    <div class="spanspan">
        <div>
            <div id="p">
                This text will be red!
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</body>
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for an answer that works
* -0.1 points for an answer not including `<body>` as requested

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 14 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what the following terms are:

* Encoding
* Encryption
* Hashing

Especially explain how they differ.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

**Encoding** \
A way to express values as other values, for example map characters to numbers, such as `A` to `65`, `B` to `66`, etc. Can be used to represent characters in a computer. No secrets here.

**Encryption** \
A way to encrypt a message (to make a text unreadable to others). The one doing the encryption usually has one key for the encryption algorithm used to generated the encrypted message, and the one that wants to be able to read the encrypted message needs one key (could be the same as the one used for encrypting the message) to do the decryption and obtain the original message again. For encryption to be useful, at least one of the keys needs to kept secret (not available to everybody).

**Hashing** \
A way to make a message unreadable to others and that can't be reversed (the original message can't be obtained again, unless a brute-force technique is used (usually very slow and impractical to use)). Often used for storing passwords (store the hash value of the password) or to compute a short "fingerprint" of a message. 

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

::: warning It's not random!
Very many students answer something like *It generates a random string*, or *It consists of random characters*. That is not true, all three are very much deterministic. You can write things like *The hash value seems to consist of random characters*, and similar, but nothing is random in the algorithms (except generation of keys/salt).
:::

* 0.33 points for encoding mapping characters to numbers (no secrets)
* 0.33 points for encryption makes messages unreadable but can then be decrypted using a decryption key
* 0.33 points for hashing makes messages unreadable and can't (easily) be made readable again
* -0.1 points for saying that encrypted messages/hash values are random

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 15 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

When hashing, explain what *salting* is, and when and why you need to use that.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

*Salting* is a way of storing hash values of passwords more secure. A hash algorithm should always produce the same output for the same input. Hackers can therefor generate a *rainbow table* that contains simple, short and well-known passwords and their respective hash value. If a hacker then comes across the hash values of our users passwords, they can easily use their rainbow table to figure out which password our users have that uses one of these simple, short and well-known passwords.

So, instead of simply hashing the passwords our users have, we append a string of our choice to the users password, known as the *salt*, and hashes `the password + the salt`. So even if our users use simple, short and well-known passwords, the hash value won't exist in the hacker's rainbow table, and therefor our users passwords will be stored in a little bit more secure way.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.33 points for explaining what salting is (extra string added to passwords before hashing)
* 0.33 points for explaining when we need to use salt (when storing passwords)
* 0.33 points for explaining why we need use it (to protect against existing rainbow tables/harder to reverse)

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 16 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Carl needs a web application to which he can send a single HTTP request, and when the web application receives the HTTP request, it should do something (for example remove all data stored in the web application, so the web application basically restarts). Carl don't want anyone to be to send that HTTP request, so he will send a password along with the request, and the web application should only carry out the request if the correct password is provided.

When sending passwords, it's of course important to use HTTPS. But Carl thinks he has a workaround to this. He thinks that if he uses client-side JavaScript to hash his password directly in the web browser, and only send the hash value of the password to the server, he doesn't need to use HTTPS, but can stick to using HTTP.

Has Carl come up with a good workaround or not? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

No, Carl has not come up with a good solution. The problem is that any man-in-the-middle (anyone that helps forwarding the HTTP request to the server) can see the hash value of his password. This basically means that any man-in-the-middle can send a request to the server with the same hash value and that way restart the web application (Carl's password would still remain unknown to them though).

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for correct answer and valid justification, such as:
    * Man-in-the-middle doesn't need to know Carl's password, she can re-send the request with the same hash value whenever she want to restart Carl's web application
    * Man-in-the-middle can see carl's hash value and brute-force (e.g. use rainbow tables) Carl's password and login to other websites where Carl uses the same password
    * Mai-in-the-middle can send back client-side JavaScript (instead of the web app's client-side JavaScript) that sends the password Carl enters to the hacker's website, and then the hacker can login to Carl's accounts that use the same password on other websites

::: warning About the justification
Just saying something like *HTTP is not secure, one must always use HTTPS* is not enough to get any points; one must justify the answer by describing how a hacker would take advantage of the bad solution to get any points.
:::

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 17 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Alice has her own personal website only she can login to. When she has logged in, she can write new blogposts.

Here is the code that displays all blogposts:

**app.js**
```js
// ...
app.get('/blogposts', function(request, response){
    
    const query = "SELECT * FROM blogposts"
    
    db.all(query, function(error, blogposts){
        // Let us assume no error occured to keep things simple.
        const model = {
            blogposts
        }
        response.render('blogposts.hbs', model)
    })
    
})
// ...
```

**views/blogposts.hbs**
```hbs
<h1>Blogposts</h1>
{{#each blogposts}}
    <div>
        <h2>{{title}}</h2>
        <div>{{{content}}}</div>
    </div>
{{/each}}
```

Does this part of the website seem to contain any known security vulnerability? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

No, everything seems to be OK:

* Query to the database contains no SQL injection vulnerability.
* The view contains no cross-site scripting vulnerability (`content` always come from Alice, so no cross-site scripting vulnerability when using triple curly brackets in this case).

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1.5 points for no cross-site scripting vulnerability
* 0.5 points for no SQL injection vulnerability
* (0.25 points for saying triple curly brackets is a vulnerability (it's not in this case, since the input here only comes from Alice))
* (1 point for saying triple curly brackets is a vulnerability if Alice's account is hacked (but then everything is kind of a vulnerability... :| ))

::: warning It's feature, not a bug
Many suggests one should use double curly brackets instead of triple curly brackets, suggesting that it's a bug that triple curling brackets is used. That's not the case; triple curly brackets are used on purpose so Alice can style her blogposts using HTML and CSS, so starting to use double curling brackets will break that feature, and not be a good workaround.
:::

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 18 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

On a website with user accounts, the following code is used to handle login requests:

```js
// ...
app.post('/login', function(request, response){
    
    const username = request.body.username
    const password = request.body.password
    
    const query = `
        SELECT
            *
        FROM
            accounts
        WHERE
            password = "`+password+`" AND
            username = "`+username+`"
        LIMIT 1
    `
    
    // The query is sent to the database, if we get back a
    // matching account we store it in session, to remember
    // which account the user logged in to, etc.
    
})
// ...
```

Enter a username and a password one can use to login to the account with the username `Alice`, no matter which password she has.

**Note**: Be explicit about what you enter as username and what you enter as password.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Username: `" OR username = "Alice` \
Password: `...`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for an answer that works.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 19 (3p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Users can create and login to accounts on Website A, and thereafter write blogposts belonging to their own accounts. After logging in it's also possible to delete your own account (and your blogposts) by sending a GET request to `/accounts/delete-me`.

Website A also contains a Cross-site Request Forgery vulnerability. Imagine you are a hacker and would like to delete the account for a specific user. Explain how you would do that (mention details).

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

One way to do that is by:

1. Wait until the user posts a new blogpost on Website A. This likely means the user has an active login session (since no user clicks on the logout button when they are done).
2. Send an email to the user with an image that will be loaded from `website-a.com/accounts/delete-me` (`website-a.com` = domain name for Website A).
3. If the user opens the email in the same web browser that contains the active login session and the web browser displays images in emails by default (or the user agrees to display the image), then the web browser will send an HTTP GET request for the image with a valid login session, so the web application will basically delete the user's account when it receives that HTTP request.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 3 points for answers that work.

OR:

* 2 points for answers that describes the general procedure but lack information on how to get the specific targeted user to send the unintentional request.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 20 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Implement the JavaScript function `factorial(n)`, that receives a none-negative integer `n` as argument and returns the product of the integers between `1` and `n`. Also note that `factorial(0)` → `1`. Sample usage:

```js
factorial(0) // --> 1
factorial(3) // --> 3*2*1 --> 6
factorial(5) // --> 5*4*3*2*1 --> 120
```

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
function factorial(n){
    let product = 1
    for(let i=1; i<=n; i++){
        product *= i
    }
    return product
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for a solution that works/is very close to be working
* -0.1 points for calling result variable a bad name (`a`, `sum`, `val`, etc.)
* -0.1 points for having if statement in loop
* -0.1 points for indentation error/inconsistent indentation
* -0.1 points for declaring an `int` variable (does not exist in JS)
* -0.1 points for declaring a `var` instead of a `let` variable
* -0.1 points for using global variable
* -0.1 points for product variable starting on `0`
* -0.1 points for loop iterating over `0`
* -0.1 points for spelling name on variable wrong
* -0.1 points for missing `function` keyword
* -0.1 points for wrong condition in loop
* -0.1 points for using assignment as condition in if statement
* -0.1 points for introducing unnecessary variable
* -0.1 points for not including `n` in the product
* -0.1 points for including `n` in the product twice
* -0.1 points for not naming the parameter `n` as instructed.
* -0.1 points for assigning new value to `const` variable
* -0.3 points for never updating the result variable

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 21 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In JavaScript, a book with a title, number of pages and average number of words per page can be represented as an object like this:

```js
const book = {
    title: "There and back again",
    numberOfPages: 489,
    averageNumberOfWordsPerPage: 410
}
```

Assume a reader reads 2 words per second. A book is considered to be *long* if it takes more than 8 hours to read. Implement the function `getLongBooks(books)`, which receives an array of book objects, and returns a new array containing all the *long* books.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
const SECONDS_PER_MINUTE = 60
const MINUTES_PER_HOUR = 60
const READ_WORDS_PER_SECOND = 2
const LONG_BOOK_MIN_HOURS = 8
const LONG_BOOK_MIN_SECONDS = LONG_BOOK_MIN_HOURS * MINUTES_PER_HOUR * SECONDS_PER_MINUTE

function getNumberOfWordsInBook(book){
    return book.numberOfPages * book.averageNumberOfWordsPerPage
}

function getSecondsToReadBook(book){
    return getNumberOfWordsInBook(book) / READ_WORDS_PER_SECOND
}

function isBookLong(book){
    return LONG_BOOK_MIN_SECONDS <= getSecondsToReadBook(book)
}

function getLongBooks(books){
    const longBooks = []
    for(const book of books){
        if(isBookLong(book)){
            longBooks.push(book)
        }
    }
    return longBooks
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for a solution that works/is very close to be working
* -0.1 points for not being consistent with how semicolons are used
* -0.2 points for using global variable
* -0.2 points for indentation error/inconsistent indentation
* -0.2 points for using poorly named variable (e.g. `time`)
* -0.4 points for using a single hardcoded value compound of multiple values without indicating what it represents, e.g. `14400`
* -0.2 points for using hardcoded values without indicating what they represents, e.g. `2*60*60`
* -0.2 points for explaining what a hardcoded value means far away from where the hardcoded value is
* -0.2 points for using `let` when `const` can be used
* -0.2 points for poorly named variable
* -0.2 points for iterating over indexes instead of values
* -0.2 points for multiplying by `2` instead of dividing
* -0.25 for using `numberOfPages` as variable instead of property
* -0.25 points for using `this`
* -0.25 points for not creating empty array correctly
* -0.25 points for `array.length()`
* -0.25 points for never returning the long books array
* -0.25 points for missing or misspelled `function` keyword
* -0.25 points for referring to `book` when meaning `books`, or vice versa, or similar
* -0.25 points for thinking iterating over indexes with a for-of loop
* -0.25 points for using `new` when not valid
* -0.25 points for not adding to the end of array correctly (not using `push`)
* -0.25 points for having `for` loop in parentheses
* -0.5 points for adding `else` to a `for` loop

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 22 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In JavaScript, the asynchronous functions `getAllBooks()` and `getAllMovies()` can be used like this:

```js
getAllBooks(function(error, books){
    if(error){
        // Something went wrong.
    }else{
        // books = [{id: 1, title: "Heartbreak"}, ...]
    }
])
getAllMovies(function(error, movies){
    if(error){
        // Something went wrong.
    }else{
        // movies = [{id: 1, title: "GoldenEye"}, ...]
    }
])
```

Use the functions above to implement the asynchronous function `getAllBooksAndMovies()` that can be used like this:

```js
getAllBooksAndMovies(function(error, booksAndMovies){
    if(error){
        // Something went wrong with either fetching the books or the movies.
    }else{
        // booksAndMovies = {
        //     books: [{id: 1, title: "Heartbreak"}, ...],
        //     movies: [{id: 1, title: "GoldenEye"}, ...]
        // }
    }
])
```

The callback `function(error, booksAndMovies)` should only be called once, and if something goes wrong it should be called with the error object from `getAllBooks()` or `getAllMovies()` (whichever that goes wrong), otherwise the error parameter should be `null`. The parameter `booksAndMovies` should be `undefined` (not present) if something goes wrong, otherwise an object per the example above.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
function getAllBooksAndMovies(callback){
    
    getAllBooks(function(booksError, books){
        
        if(booksError){
            callback(booksError)
        }else{
            
            getAllBooksAndMovies(function(moviesError, booksAndMovies){
                
                if(moviesError){
                    callback(moviesError)
                }else{
                    callback(null, {
                        books,
                        movies
                    })
                }
                
            ])
            
        }
        
    }
    
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correctly sending back errors
* 1 point for correctly sending back success-value
* -0.5 points for each mistake not making it work (re-assign to const, syntax error, logical errors, etc.)
* -0.25 points for each bad implementation choice (poorly named variable, unnecessary/unused variable, wrong indentation, calling both error parameters the same name, etc.)

</template>
</ExamQuestion>