---
sidebar: auto
---
<SetTitle title="Web Development - Advanced Concepts 2021" />

# Exam 2021-08-22
Here you find sample answers and marking guidelines to the questions on the exam 2021-08-22.

::: danger Point reduction for improper usage of upper-/lowercase characters
As explained in the exam instructions, answers not properly using upper-/lowercase characters will receive point reduction. This time it has only been set to `0.1` points for each answer that do not properly use upper-/lowercase characters, such as answers written with only lowercase characters. Next time this will likely increase.
:::

---

Start by reading through all questions.

Max score is 30 points.

* For grade 3, 40% of max score (12 points) is required.
* For grade 4, 60% of max score (18 points) is required.
* For grade 5, 80% of max score (24 points) is required.

You are not allowed to use anything else except:

* The computer you sit at to only answer the questions on this exam.
* A dictionary to translate to/from English from/to your native language.

Write your answers in either English or Swedish. If you write your answers in Swedish, make sure to not introduce any translation confusement. **Write proper sentences (spelling, upper/lower case characters, punctuation, etc.).** Answers that do not do this good enough/are vague/are not understandable cannot receive full score on the questions.

Answers that are more or less copies of sample answers given to you or copies of text found somewhere else will be rewarded 0 points. Use your own words to answer the questions.

Good luck!

## Question 1 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In client-side JavaScript, explain when you should use `anElement.innerText` and when you should use `anElement.innerHTML`.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

They both can be used to read out or set the content of an HTML element. The difference is that `anElement.innerText` only returns the text the element contains/set the content to a text where the HTML code is encoded using character entities. So, use `anElement.innerText` when you don't want HTML code in a text be treated as HTML code (usually when data comes from users), and use `anElement.innerHTML` when you want HTML code in a text to be treated as HTML code.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for answer explaining when one should use which one.

OR

* 0.5 points for answer that is quite poor, but somehow manages to indicate something about how they differ.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 2 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>


Explain the difference between:

```js
document.querySelector('form').addEventListener('submit', handleSubmission)
```

And:

```js
document.querySelector('form').addEventListener('submit', handleSubmission())
```

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The first code piece adds the function `handleSubmission` as an event listener to the `submit` event on the form.

The second code piece first calls `handleSubmission()`, and it's return value will be added as an event listener to the `submit` event on the form (probably not what was intended).

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct explanation of how both works/how they differ.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 3 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Does the code below contain a XSS vulnerability hackers can exploit? Justify your answer.

**app.js**
```js
// ...
app.get('/sum', function(request, response){
  
  const model = {
    x: request.query.x,
    y: request.query.y,
    sum: request.query.x + request.query.y
  }
  
  response.render("sum.hbs", model)
  
})
// ...
```

**views/sum.hbs**
```html
<h1>Sum</h1>
{{{x}}} + {{{y}}} = {{{sum}}}
```
</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Yes, it contains a XSS vulnerability. By tricking a user to visit `/sum?x=2&y=<script>BAD JS CODE</script>` (`<script>BAD JS CODE</script>` needs to be encoded), the `BAD JS CODE` would be executed by the user's web browser since it would be sent to the user web browser without being escaped since we in the Handlebars file use triple curly brackets instead of double curly brackets.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer and valid justification, for example:
    * a description of how a hacker could exploit it, OR
    * clearly suggesting hackers can only hack themselves using the vulnerability (which is not true, but shows that you understand how the vulnerability works)

::: warning Be detailed!
Answers simply saying something like *Hackers can exploit this by sending bad code to the web app* are rewarded 0 points. That is a too general answer that doesn't show that you understand the vulnerability (the answer could fit many questions about various security vulnerabilities). To really show that you understand the vulnerability, you have to give a detail explanation of how a hacker would exploit it.
:::

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 4 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Match each HTTP status code with its reason phrase.

Status codes: `200` `201` `400` `401` `405`

Reason Phrases: `Method Not Allowed` `OK` `Created` `Bad Request` `Unauthorized`

All needs to be matched correct to get any points.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

`200` - `OK`\
`201` - `Created`\
`400` - `Bad Request`\
`401` - `Unauthorized`\
`405` - `Method Not Allowed`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for all correct.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 5 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name three different events that can fire on a webpage, and explain when they fire.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* `DOMContentLoaded`, fires when the web browser has read all HTML code.
* `click`, fires when the users click on the webpage.
* `submit`, fires when a `<form>` is submitted. 

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.15 points for each (largely) correct name of event.
* -0.05 points for each name starting with `on`, but otherwise is correct.
* -0.05 points for each name spelled wrong (including upper/lower characters).
* 0.15 points for each correct when they fire.

OR

* 1 point for all correct.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 6 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Carl is assigned the task to design a REST API. To delete movies in a specific genre a specific year, he decides clients should send an HTTP `DELETE` request to `/movies`, add the header `Content-Type: application/json` and in the body of the request add `{"year": 2000, "genre": "drama"}` (change `2000` and `"drama"` to desired values).

Is this a good or bad REST API design? Justify your answer.

**Note**: You don't need to worry about authorization in this question.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

It is a bad design since a `DELETE` request should delete the movies identified by the URI. So `{"year": 2000, "genre": "drama"}` in the body should rather be passed in the query string, so it's part of the URI.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer and valid justification.

::: warning Note!
Some of you suggest that one should use URIs like `/movies/:id` instead. But you don't know if that's a good solution or not since you don't know what functionality the clients need. You can only complain on things in the API you know he's doing wrong.
:::

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 7 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what a docker container and a docker image is.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A *Docker Image* is a description of everything needed to run an application, including which operating system to use, which libraries the application needs, the code for the application, the command to start the application, etc.

A *Docker Container* is something we can use to run a Docker Image (by extension to run the application in the image) in an isolated environment.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for correct Docker Image explanation (app, code, libs, etc.).
* 0.5 points for correct Docker Container explanation (run an image/the app in the image).
* -0.25 points for not mentioning what an image consists of.
* -0.1 points for answers suggesting only web applications runs in images.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>





## Question 8 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain to a web developer that knows nothing about scaling web applications how horizontal scaling works, and how you would solve the problems that comes with it. Be detailed.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

*Horizontal Scaling* is a way to make an application able to handle more load (to scale the application) by running the application on multiple servers (computers).

The first problem that comes with this solution is to figure out which server to send the next "load" (e.g. HTTP request) to. One solution is to put a load balancer (a computer) in front of the servers, so all the new "loads" goes to the load balancer, and then the load balancer forwards each load to one of the servers, and distributes the load between the servers that way.

Another problem with this solution is that the application can't be stateful (have memory of previous loads, for examples sessions/changes made to sessions). For example, if one server receives a login request, that server can't remember that the user has logged in, because then the next HTTP request from that client might be sent to another server, which isn't aware of that the user has previously sent a successful login request to another server. One solution to this problem is to store the state (such as sessions) on a separate server, for example in a Redis database on a separate server, which the horizontally scaled application is connected to and use to store and read its state.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for load balancing problem.
* 0.5 points for load balancing solution.
* 0.5 points for state problem.
* 0.5 points for state solution.
* -0.5 points for not mentioning that horizontal scaling is to run app on multiple servers.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 9 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Alice is assigned the task to design a REST API clients can use to login and then create new blogposts belonging to that account. She decides that when a user logs in, the client obtains an access token (`THE.ACCESS.TOKEN`) containing the user's account id, which can be used to act on the behalf of that user. Then when the user wants to create a new blogpost belonging to her own account, the client sends an HTTP `POST` request to `/blogposts` with the headers `Authorization: Bearer THE.ACCESS.TOKEN` and `Content-Type: application/json`, and in the body pass `{"title": "The actual title", "content": "The blogpost text."}`.

Is this a good or bad design? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

It's a bad design since the request contains no information about which account the new blogpost should belong to (there's no `accountId` in the body; one can't understand what the request is about by just looking at the request).

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for correct answer and justification.
* -1 point for saying access token not needed at all.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 10 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what MVC is, which parts it consists of and what each part is used for. Then also explain how web applications use MVC.

Don't write any code.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

MVC is a design pattern describing a way to design/structure the code for the graphical user interface part of an application.

The MVC design pattern consists of three different parts: models, views and controllers.

* A *Model* contains the data that should be visualized in the GUI.
* A *View* contains the code that visualizes the data in a Model. 
* A *Controller* picks which Model and View that should be used, and also listen for user interaction in the View and do what the user wants when the interactions happens, such as changing the data in the Model or using another View.

When web applications make use of the MVC design pattern, Controllers listen for incoming HTTP requests, and when they receive one, they create a Model with the data that should be sent back, and then passes that data to a View, which embeds it in HTML code, and then the Controller sends back the HTML code from the View.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for what MVC is.
* 0.33 points for each part name and description of each part.
* 0.5 points for how web applications makes use of MVC (controllers use HTTP, Views produces HTML).

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 11 (3p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what a three-layered architecture is, which parts it consists of and what each part is used for. Then also explain how web applications use a three-layered architecture.

Don't write any code.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A three-layered architecture is a way organize the code of an application in three different layers, each with their own responsibilities:

* The *Data Access Layer* contains the code for storing and retrieving the data the application needs to store. It usually provides CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations for this.
* The *Business Logic Layer* contains the code for carrying out the tasks the user wants, such as computing for how many days the user has been using the application, computing how much the user should pay for the products put in a shopping bag, etc. It also contains authorization (for example, only allow the user to use the application if the user has paid for the application of if the test period is not yet over) and validation (e.g. checking if data entered in forms are valid).
* The *Presentation Layer* is responsible for implementing an interface through which the application can be used, for example a graphical user interface that humans can use. When the interfaced is used (for example a button is clicked), the Presentation Layer asks the Business Logic Layer to execute the task the button is associated with.

In web applications, the Presentation Layer is responsible for receiving HTTP requests, and then ask the Business Logic Layer to carry out the requests. The Data Access Layer often store the data in a database. The Presentation Layer is also responsible for generating the HTTP response to send back, containing the HTML and CSS code the web browser use to display the webpage in the response.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for what it is.
* 0.25 points for each part name.
* 0.25 points for each part used for.
* 0.5 points for how web app use it.
* 0.5 points for good quality answers.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 12 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In a three-layered architecture for a web application, is it only in the Presentation Layer we need to think about security vulnerabilities hackers can take advantage of? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

No, it's not the only layer. For example, we need to think of SQL injections vulnerabilities in the Data Access Layer.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer and valid justification (for example an example).

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 13 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what a JWT is, which parts it consists of and what each part is used for. Make sure to mention all details so the reader understand why they are secure to use.


</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A JSON Web Token (JWT) is a string that represents some data called *claims*. JWTs are self-contained, meaning the data is stored in the token itself (compared to other type of tokens that can be only identifiers for where the data is stored).

A JWT consists of three parts and has the format `aaa.bbb.ccc`:

* The `aaa` part is the Header. It contains meta information about the token, such as which type of token it is, and which algorithm that was used to compute the Signature (third part) of the token. This information is expressed as a JSON object, which then is encoded in Base64Url format.
* The `bbb` part is the Payload. It contains the claims the token represents. The claims are expressed as a JSON object, which then is encoded in Base64Url format.
* The `ccc` part is the Signature. The one who creates the token decides what should be put in the token (i.e. the `aaa` and `bbb` part), then it uses the algorithm specified in the Header to compute the Signature, which is a signed value of the `aaa.bbb` part. The creator can then use the Signature to verify that no one has changed the data in the token (e.g. compute it again in a token it receives, and see that it matches the Signature in the received token), i.e. the token was created by itself.

One way to compute the Signature is by hashing `aaa.bbb` concatenated with a secret string only the creator knows. This way, if a hacker changes the claims in the token after having received it, the creator will compute a different signature, and find the token invalid. For a hacker to make a valid token, she also needs to change the signature to a valid signature, but she can't do that since she doesn't know the secret string the creator is using.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.25 points for "what it is" (`aaa.bbb.ccc` format, etc.).
* 0.25 points for each part name.
* 0.25 points for each part description.
* 0.25 points for answers that clearly explains why they are secure (among other things, that the server re-computes the signature each time it receives the token).

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 14 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In a three layered architecture, give an example of an implementation detail that should not be exposed to the next layer. Choose whichever layer you want. Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The Data Access Layer should not expose internal errors. For example, if the Data Access Layer stores the data in a MySQL database, it should not expose error messages from MySQL. If it does, then the DAL can't easily be changed in the future to store data in, for example, a PostgreSQL database instead, since the Business Logic Layer or the Presentation Layer has been implemented to use the specific errors from the MySQL database. To change an implementation detail in the Data Access Layer, one should not need to change the other layers.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for example.
* 0.5 points for justification.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 15 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

The function `addBlogpost()` is in a blogpost repository in the Data Access Layer of a three layered application that stores its resources in a relational database. On the website, users can create their own accounts and then create blogposts belonging to their own account.

```js
function addBlogpost(blogpost, callback){
    
    const query = `
        INSERT INTO blogposts (accountId, title, content) VALUES(?, ?, ?)
    `
    
    const values = [
        blogpost.accountId,
        blogpost.title,
        blogpost.content
    ]
    
    db.query(query, values, function(error, results){
        if(error){
            callback("DB Communication error.")
        }else{
            callback(null, results.insertId)
        }
    })
    
}
```

What's wrong with the current implementation of the function? Explain how you would solve that problem (in words, don't write any code).

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

There should be a foreign key constraint from `blogposts.accountId` to the primary key in the accounts table. Without it, users might be able to create a blogpost that belongs to an account that no longer exists. With the constraint, in the callback function in the code above, one should check for an error indicating if that constraint has been violated, and if it has, one should send back a more descriptive error like *The account the blogpost belongs to doesn't exist.*, instead of the general *DB Communication error*.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for explaining the problem.
* 1 point for suggesting that a foreign key constraint should be used, and one should look for an error indicating a violation to the constraint.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 16 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Describe a case where you need to add CORS support to your web application. Then also describe how you would add support for it (in general, and not in a specific framework).

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A web application needs to support CORS when client-side code on another website should be able to send HTTP requests to it. The web application could for example contain weather information, and other websites would like to get the weather at the user's current location and display it on their own website using client-side code. For this to work, the web application needs to support CORS.

CORS are implemented through headers in HTTP. When a web browser sends an HTTP request to a server, the server can in the HTTP response add headers telling the web browser what type of client-side code that is allowed to send requests to it. Some of the headers are:

* `Access-Control-Allow-Origin`: The value indicates where client-side code that is allowed to send cross-site requests to the server may come from.
* `Access-Control-Allow-Method`: The value indicates which method that may be used in the HTTP request by the client-side code.
* `Access-Control-Allow-Headers`: The value indicates which headers that may be used in the HTTP request by the client-side code.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for the case.
* 1.5 points for how to add support.

::: warning Be detailed!
Just mentioning *other website to be allowed to send request* is not enough: you must indicate that it's client-side code; servers have no restrictions since they don't have the Same-Origin Policy (only web browsers have that).
:::

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 17 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what a CORS preflight request is, and give example of when one is needed.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

When client-side code would like to send a cross-domain request that is not a simple request (for example a `PUT` request or a `DELETE` request), the web browser will first send it's own HTTP request to the cross-domain server to see if it is OK for the client-side code to send the actual request it want's to send that request is called a *preflight* request. If the server in the response says it's OK, then the web browser will send the client-side code's actual request.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 18 (4p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

The function `getMovieById()` can be used to fetch a movie with a specific id asynchronously from the server like this:

```js
getMovieById(3, function(movie, error){
    if(error){
        // Couldn't fetch the movie.
    }else{
        // Do something with the movie.
        // movie = {id: 3, title: "Hello!", producerId: 123, categoryId: 45}
    }
})
```

The function `getProducerById()` can be used to fetch a producer with a specific id asynchronously from the server like this:

```js
getProducerById(5, function(producer, error){
    if(error){
        // Couldn't fetch the producer.
    }else{
        // Do something with the producer.
        // producer = {id: 5, name: "Robin"}
    }
})
```

The function `getCategoryById()` can be used to fetch a category with a specific id asynchronously from the server like this:

```js
getCategoryById(7, function(category, error){
    if(error){
        // Couldn't fetch the category.
    }else{
        // Do something with the category.
        // category = {id: 7, name: "Comedy"}
    }
})
```

Create the function `getMovieByIdWithProducerAndCategory()`, that fetches a movie with a specific id, and then fetches the producer and the category the movie belongs too, so it can be used like this:

```js
getMovieByIdWithProducerAndCategory(4, function(movie, producer, category, error){
    if(error){
        // Couldn't fetch all three resources.
    }else{
        // Could fetch all three resources.
        // movie = {id: 4, title: "Hello!", producerId: 32, categoryId: 45}
        // producer = {id: 32, name: "Jessie"}
        // category = {id: 45, name: "Horror"}
    }
})
```

Important details:

* The callback function should be called only one time.
* As soon as any function gives an error, the callback function should be called with that error (the other arguments should be `null`).
* The data should be fetched as fast as possible (loading times should be minimized).

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
function getMovieByIdWithProducerAndCategory(movieId, callback){
    
    getMovieById(movieId, function(movie, error){
        
        if(error){
            callback(null, null, null, error)
        }else{
            
            let producerError = null
            let fetchedProducer = null
            let categoryError = null
            let fetchedCategory = null
            
            getProducerById(movie.producerId, function(producer, error){
                producerError = error
                fetchedProducer = producer
                sendBackIfDone()
            })
            
            getCategoryById(movie.categoryId, function(category, error){
                categoryError = error
                fetchedCategory = category
                sendBackIfDone()
            })
            
            let hasSentBack = false
            function sendBackIfDone(){
                if(!hasSentBack){
                    const error = producerError || categoryError
                    if(error){
                        callback(null, null, null, error)
                        hasSentBack = true
                    }else if(fetchedProducer && fetchedCategory){
                        callback(movie, producer, category, null)
                        hasSentBack = true
                    }
                }
            }
            
        }
        
    })
    
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 4 points for a correct answer.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 19 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

The JavaScript function `setTimeout()` can be used to schedule a call to a function in the future. Example:

```js
setTimeout(function(){
    // The code here in the function runs 1000 ms later.
}, 1000)
```

The function `getInfo()` can be used to fetch some info from a server. Sample usage:

```js
getInfo(function(info){
    // This code runs when we have got the info.
})
```

As you can see, `getInfo()` is asynchronous, and it might take a few seconds before it has fetched the info from the server and passed it to the callback function.

Your task is to implement the function `getInfoOrFail()` that works according to the sample usage below.

```js
getInfoOrFail(function(didGetInfo, info){ // didGetInfo is a boolean.
    if(!didGetInfo){
        // The server did not send back info within 3 seconds.
    }else{
        // We got info within 3 seconds.
    }
})
```

The callback function passed to `getInfoOrFail()` should only be called once.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
function getInfoOrFail(callback){
    
    let hasSentBack = false
    
    getInfo(function(info){
        if(!hasSentBack){
            callback(true, info)
            hasSentBack = true
        }
    })
    
    setTimeout(function(){
        if(!hasSentBack){
            callback(false)
            hasSentBack = true
        }
    }, 3000)
    
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for a correct answer.
* -0.25 points if always waiting 3 seconds, even if the info has been fetched before that.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>