---
sidebar: auto
---

<SetTitle title="Web Development - Advanced Concepts" />

# Exam 2021-03-21
Here you find sample answers and marking guidelines to the questions on the exam 2021-03-21.

## Question 1
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name three different client-side JavaScript events that can fire on a webpage, and explain when they fire.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* `DOMContentLoaded`: Fired when the web browser is done parsing the HTML code.
* `click`: Fired when the user clicks on an element.
* `submit`: Fired when a `<form>` is submitted.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

For good answers:

* 1 point for (more or less) correct answer.
* -0.15 points for each wrong name.
* -0.15 points for each wrong when.

For poorer answers:

* 0.15 points for each correct name.
* 0.15 points for each correct when.

For all answers:

* -0.1 point for having "on" in the beginning of event name.
* -0.1 points for name starting with uppercase that should be lowercase.
* -0.1 points for each spelling mistake in name.
* -0.1 points for each confusing description.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 2
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain the difference between:

```js
document.querySelector('form').addEventListener('submit', handleSubmission)
```

And:

```js
document.querySelector('form').addEventListener('submit', handleSubmission())
```

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

When `handleSubmission` is used, we register the function `handleSubmission` as the event listener for the `submit` event.

When `handleSubmission()` is used, the function `handleSubmission` is called, and we register its return value (which should be a function) as the event listener for the `submit` event.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for explaining `handleSubmission` retrieves the function stored in the variable and register it as the event listener.
* 0.5 points for explaining `handleSubmission()` calls the function stored in the variable.
* 1 point for explaining the return value from `handleSubmission()` is registered as the event listener.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 3
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

On a webpage with instructions on how to cook spaghetti, the following instructions are available:

```html
<div id="instructions">
    <p>Heat water in a pot until it starts to boil.</p>
    <p>Put the spaghetti in the pot.</p>
    <p>Wait 8 minutes.</p>
    <p>Remove the water and eat!</p>
</div>
```

Claire thinks she can improve the user experience by only showing one instruction at a time, and let the user click on the currently shown instruction to change to next instruction. To do that, she has added the following code:

```html
<style>
#instructions p{
    display: none;
}
#instructions p.currentInstruction{
    display: block;
}
</style>
<script>
// This code runs when the web browser has read the HTML code first mentioned.
let currentInstructionIndex = 0
const allInstructions = document.querySelectorAll("#instructions p")
for(const instruction of allInstructions){
    instruction.addEventListener("click", function(){
        instruction.classList.remove("currentInstruction")
        currentInstructionIndex = (currentInstructionIndex + 1) % allInstructions.length
        allInstructions[currentInstructionIndex].classList.add("currentInstruction")
    })
}
allInstructions[0].classList.add("currentInstruction")
</script>
```

When Claire tries her solution on her computer, it works good, precisely as she intended. But she has done one bad thing. What is that, and why shouldn't she do that?

**Note**: That the instructions are in paragraphs are bad, but not the thing we are looking for.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The bad thing she has done is counting on the users have client-side JavaScript enabled in the web browser. That something one shouldn't count on, because now, the users who have client-side JavaScript disabled won't see a single instruction on their screens. Client-side JavaScript should only be used to improve the user experience for the users that have it enabled, not making the website dependent on users having it enabled.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for explaining what the bad thing is (rely on client-side JS).
* 0.5 points for explaining why that is a bad thing (not all users have client-side JS enabled).
* 0.25 points for explaining it's better to listen for the `DOMContentLoaded` event.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 5
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Does it makes sense to use the body in an HTTP GET request? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

No, it does not make sense; HTTP GET requests are about fetching the resource(s) identified by the URI; the body has no meaning for these requests.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for correct answer and valid justification.
* 1 point for correct answer and valid justification but also saying there exist exceptions.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 6
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>


Explain what the `Location` header can be used for in a response to an HTTP POST request. Show an example of a value it can contain, and explain how that value should be interpreted.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The `Location` header in a response to an HTTP POST request can be used to indicate the URI of a newly created resource. For example, if the request is about creating a new movie resource, the value for this header could be `/movies/123` to indicate that the URI for the new resource is `/movies/123`. An HTTP GET request for this URI would send back the newly created resource.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for general explanation.
* 0.25 points for example of value.
* 0.25 points for explanation of example of value.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 7
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what a docker container and a docker image is.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A *Docker Image* is a description of everything needed to run an application, including which operating system to use, which libraries the application needs, the code for the application, the command to start the application, etc.

A *Docker Container* is something we can use to run a Docker Image (by extension to run the application in the image) in an isolated environment.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for correct Docker Image explanation.
* 0.5 points for correct Docker Container explanation.
* -0.1 points for saying Windows containers can run on Linux.
* -0.1 points for not mentioning that the goal with the image is to run an application.
* -0.1 points for saying the images run web applications only.
* -0.1 points for saying the image is an isolated environment (it's the container that is that)

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 8
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Users can on a website create new accounts and then setup their profile page, in which they can write some text other users can see. There they can also select a background color the other users will see when they visit the profile page. Can this be securely implemented? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Yes, this can be securely implemented. For example, the server can white-list the name of supported colors, e.g.:

```js
const allowedColors = ["green", "red", ...]
```

And when the user updates the profile, we simply on the server-side check that the user has entered one of the supported colors. Inserting the name of a supported color in the CSS code on the profile page will not allow hackers to insert dangerous client-side code.

Alternatively, we can allow the user to specify which color to use using the RGB-format (e.g. express amount of red, green and blue respectively on a scale between 0 and 255 the color should consist of), and on the server-side verify that the user has entered three numbers between 0 and 255. Inserting these numbers as part of the CSS code on the profile page will not allow the hacker to insert dangerous client-side code either.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 points for description of a secure implementation.

OR

* 1 point for it's secure if HTML code is escaped (the color will be inserted into CSS code, not into HTML code!).

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 9
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain to a web developer that knows nothing about scaling web applications how horizontal scaling works, and how you would solve the problems that comes with it. Be detailed.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

*Horizontal Scaling* is a way to make an application able to handle more load (to scale the application) by running the application on multiple servers (computers).

The first problem that comes with this solution is to figure out which server to send the next "load" (e.g. HTTP request) to. One solution is to put a load balancer (a computer) in front of the servers, so all the new "loads" goes to the load balancer, and then the load balancer forwards each load to one of the servers, and distributes the load between the servers that way.

Another problem with this solution is that the application can't be stateful (have memory of previous loads, for examples sessions/changes made to sessions). For example, if one server receives a login request, that server can't remember that the user has logged in, because then the next HTTP request from that client might be sent to another server, which isn't aware of that the user has previously sent a successful login request to another server. One solution to this problem is to store the state (such as sessions) on a separate server, for example in a Redis database on a separate server, which the horizontally scaled application is connected to and use to store and read its state.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* -0.5 points for not mentioning that horizontal scaling is to run app on multiple servers.
* 0.5 points for load balancing problem.
* 0.5 points for load balancing solution.
* 0.5 points for state problem.
* 0.5 points for state solution.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 10
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

JSON Web Tokens are self-contained. That means the data the token represents is encoded in the token itself. Bart argues that this should make them insecure to use as access tokens, because when a client (potential hacker) has obtained a JSON Web Token, the client can decode the data in it, change the data, and then encode the data again, and send the token with the modified data to the server. Explain (in detail) why a hacker can't do something like this to trick the server to be authorized to do things the hacker shouldn't be able to do.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A JSON Web Token does not only contain the data the token represents, but also a header with some meta information, and a signature. When the server creates the token, it takes the data in the token, the header and a secret string only the server knows and use these three ingredients to compute the signature (for example using concatenation and a hash function), which then is part of the token. Which algorithm that is used to compute the signature is stored in the header.

When the server receives back the token from a client, it will compute the signature in the token again (using the header and the data in the token and the server secret string), and if the computed signature is the same as the signature stored in the token, the server can be sure no one has modified the data in the token, because if someone has done that, then that someone also needs to compute a valid signature, and that is practically impossible since that someone won't know which secret string the server uses to compute valid signatures.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for explaining the server has a secret string or encryption key.
* 0.5 points for explaining the JWT contains a signature.
* 0.5 points for explaining how the signature is computed (`signature = algorithm(header, payload, secretString)`).
* 0.5 points for explaining the server computes signature again when receiving the JWT.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 11
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what each of the following claims should be used for and what they are abbreviations of:

* `iss`
* `sub`
* `exp`

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

* `iss`: Issuer, used to identify the application that created the token.
* `sub`: Subject, used to identify the user who accepted the token to be created/the user the token is for.
* `exp`: Expiration Time, used to indicate when the token is no longer valid.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.2 points for each correct abbreviation name.
* 0.2 points for each correct "should be used for".
* Can at most get 1 point.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 12
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In relational databases, explain why it's better to use a foreign key constraint instead of first sending a query to check if a constraint is fulfilled and then go ahead and execute the actual query you wanted to send if the constraint was fulfilled. Also show an example of this with actual queries.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The problem with the solution that sends two queries is that even if the first query says the constraint is fulfilled, that could have changed before the second query has been received and executed by the database.

For example, let's say we have the tables `Accounts` and `Blogposts`, and each blogpost must belong to an account. When creating a new blogpost that belongs to the account with id `5`, we first need to verify that the account actually exist, so we send a query like:

```sql
SELECT * FROM Accounts WHERE id = 5 LIMIT 1
```

If we get back a row, we say the constraint if fulfilled, and we go ahead and send the query that creates the blogpost. But before the database receives that query, someone else has sent this query to the database:

```sql
DELETE FROM Accounts WHERE id = 5 LIMIT 1
```

And then the database receives our query to create the new blogpost:

```sql
INSERT INTO blogposts (accountId, title, content) VALUES (5, "My day", "My day start with...")
```

That is, we ended up with a post in the database that didn't fulfill the constraint. By using foreign key constraints, we wouldn't get into this situation since the database would check the constraint for us when it receives the `INSERT INTO ...` query.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for explanation (consistency).
* 1.5 points for foreign key constraint example with queries.
* (0.5 points for unique constraint example with queries.)

::: warning Note!
Many students wrote that sending many queries is bad because it increases the workload on the database and the time it takes to send back a response. These two arguments are both true and good argument, but far from as important as preventing the system from storing inconsistent data, and hence doesn't give any points.
:::

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 13
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Name each layer a three layered architecture consists of. Also describe the responsibilities of each layer, and give examples of the technologies we use in each layer when the architecture is used in a web application.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

**Data Access Layer** \
Responsible for providing access to (to store and retrieve) the data the application use. For web applications this layer often communicates with a relational database and can make use of SQL, ORMs, etc.

**Business Logic Layer** \
Responsible for implementing the business logic of the application, such as authorization, validation and general computations. For web applications this layer often just make use of a general programming language, such as JavaScript.

**Presentation Layer** \
Responsible for providing access to the functionality in the application for users/other programs. For web applications this layer often makes use of technologies like HTML, CSS, client-side JS, web frameworks (such as Express), sessions, cookies, HTTP, MVC, templating languages, REST APIs, etc.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.33 points for responsibility of each layer.
* 0.33 points for technologies used in each layer.
* -0.33 points for each layer name not mentioned.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 14
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

What's wrong with the three-layered architecture code below? Write your answer as a comment. Also, rewrite the code so it makes better use of a three-layered architecture. The question has nothing to do with security nor error handling.

```js
// In the Presentation Layer.
accountRouter.post("/login", function(request, response){
    
    const credentials = {
        username: request.body.username,
        password: request.body.password
    }
    accountManager.login(credentials, function(error, account){
        if(error){
            response.render("login-failed.hbs")
        }else{
            request.session.loggedInAccount = account
            response.render("login-successful.hbs")
        }
    })
    
})

// In Business Logic Layer.
accountManager.login = function(credentials, callback){
    accountRepository.login(credentials, callback)
}

// In Data Access Layer.
accountRepository.login = function(credentials, callback){
    const query = "SELECT * FROM accounts WHERE username = ? AND password = ?"
    const values = [credentials.username, credentials.password]
    db.query(query, values, function(error, accounts){
        if(error || accounts.length == 0){
            callback("Login failed.")
        }else{
            callback(null, accounts[0])
        }
    })
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
// The problem is that the Data Access Layer contains a function called "login".
// Logging in is business logic and belongs to the Business Logic Layer.
// The Data Access Layer should only care about storing and retrieving data.

// The Presentation Layer is the same as before.

// In Business Logic Layer.
accountManager.login = function(credentials, callback){
    accountRepository.getAccountByUsername(credentials.username, function(error, account){
        if(error || !account || account.password != credentials.password){
            callback("Login failed")
        }else{
            callback(null, account)
        }
    })
}

// In Data Access Layer.
accountRepository.getAccountByUsername = function(username, callback){
    const query = "SELECT * FROM accounts WHERE username = ?"
    const values = [username]
    db.query(query, values, function(error, accounts){
        if(error){
            callback("DB error.")
        }else{
            callback(null, accounts[0])
        }
    })
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for what wrong.
* 0.25 points for rewriting Data Access Layer.
* 0.25 points for rewriting Business Logic Layer.

OR

* 0.5 points for pointing out that it's better to use error codes instead of error messages.

OR

* 0.5 points for pointing out that Business Logic Layer should validate the credentials.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 15
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

On a website with a web application implemented with a three layered architecture, users can create accounts and choose which their favorite color is (red, blue, yellow or green). All of this is stored in a relational database table called `accounts`. One account can look like this:

```js
{
    id: 1,
    username: "Alice",
    password: "abc123",
    color: "blue"
}
```

Everything works great, but 1 year after the website has launched, the developer realize the database consumes a lot of space. In an attempt to save space she considers mapping the name of the color to a number instead (red=0, blue=1, yellow=2 or green=3), and store the number in the database.

Explain which layer(s) in the web application that needs to be modified to be able to work with this change, and explain how they need to be changed.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

It is only the Data Access Layer that needs to be modified since we only want to change how we store the data, and how the data is stored is up to the Data Access Layer to decide. When the Data Access Layer receives a color name from the Business Logic Layer, it will map it to a number and send the number to the database. When the Data Access Layer receives a color number from the database, it will map it back to a color name and send back the color name to the Business Logic Layer.

The Presentation Layer and the Business Logic will work the same way as before; they won't be aware of the storage optimization the Data Access Layer has done.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 point for explaining it's only the Data Access Layer that needs to be changed.
* 0.5 points for describing how the Data Access Layer needs to be changed.

OR

* 0.25 points for explaining the Business Logic Layer should do the mapping (this makes a little sense since the mapping is a general computation, but it doesn't have anything to do with business logic to do (it's a storage optimization), so this is really wrong).

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 16
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Give an example of a cross-site request client-side code on `domain-a.com` can try to send to `domain-b.com` (who doesn't support CORS) but that the web browser would stop due to the Same-Origin Policy. Also give an example of a request the web browser would allow to be sent, but would not allow the client-side code to read the response for due to the Same-Origin Policy.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Example of a request the web browser would not send: an HTTP request with the `Content-Type` header set to `application/json`.

Example of a request the web browser would send but not allow the client-side code to read the response for: Any request that can be sent through the `<form>` element, e.g. a GET request for `/whatever`.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for example of request the web browser would not send (a request requiring a *CORS preflight request*).
* 1 point for example of request the web browser would send, but not allow client-side code to read the response for (a *simple CORS request*).

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 17
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain how the HTTP header `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` works. Give an example of a value it can contain, and describe when and how the header will be used.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

This header is used in HTTP responses sent from a server to tell the web browser if client-side code from a specific origin is allowed to send cross-site requests to it (or in the case of a *simple request*: if client-side code may read the response). If it contains the value `*`, it means it is allowed from all origins.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.75 points for general explanation.
* 0.25 points for sample value.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 18
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

The function `getBookById(id, callback)` can be used to fetch a book with a specific id asynchronously from the server like this:

```js
getBookById(3, function(book){
  // Do something with the book.
})
```

Create the function `getBooks(callback)`, that fetches and places the books with the  id 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in an array and then passes that array to the callback function, so it can be used like this:

```js
getBooks(function(books){
  // Do something with the books.
})
```

Implement two different versions of `getBooks(callback)`, one that fetches the books in parallel, and one that fetches books in sequential order (e.g. starts to fetch the book with id 2 when it has fetched the book with id 1, and so on). Indicate which version is which.

The order of the books in the array is not important.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
// Parallel version.
function getBooks(callback){
	
	const ids = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
	const books = []
	
	for(const id in ids){
		getBookById(id, function(book){
			books.push(book)
			if(ids.length == books.length){
				callback(books)
			}
		})
	}
	
}

// Sequential version.
function getBooks(callback){
	
	const ids = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
	const books = []
	
	getNextBook()
	
	function getNextBook(){
		if(ids.length == 0){
			callback(books)
		}else{
			getBookById(ids.shift(), function(book){
				books.push(book)
				getNextBook()
			})
		}
	}
	
}

```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

Parallel version:

* 0.5 points for sending requests in parallel.
* 1.5 points for also using callback correct.

Sequential version:

* 0.5 points for sending requests sequentially.
* 1.5 points for also using callback correct.

For each version:

* -0.25 points for not using loop.
* -0.1 points for not write loop header correct.
* -0.1 points for using global variable.
* -0.1 points for not using const/let/var correct.
* -0.1 points for indentation error.
* -0.1 points for spelling mistake in function/variable.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 19
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

The asynchronous function `getUserById(userId, callback)` can be used like this:

```js
getUserById(3, function(error, user){
  if(error){
    console.log("Could not fetch the user.")
  }else{
    console.log(user.username)
  }
})
```

Now Alice wants you to implement the function `getUserByIdPromise(userId)`, which should call `getUserById(userId, callback)` and return back a new promise through which one can listen for when the user has been fetched, or when something goes wrong. Implemented properly, one should be able to use it like this:

```js
getUserByIdPromise(3).then(function(user){
  console.log(user.username)
}).catch(function(error){
  console.log("Could not fetch the user.")
})
```

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
function getUserByIdPromise(id){
	return new Promise(function(resolve, reject){
		getUserById(id, function(error, user){
			if(error){
				reject(error)
			}else{
				resolve(user)
			}
		})
	})
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>