---
sidebar: auto
---

# Exam 2021-06-09
Here you find sample answers and marking guidelines to the questions on the exam 2021-06-09.

::: danger Point reduction for improper usage of upper-/lowercase characters
As explained in the exam instructions, answers not properly using upper-/lowercase characters will receive point reduction. This time it has only been set to 0.1 points for each answer that do not properly use upper-/lowercase characters, such as answers written with only lowercase characters. Next time this will likely increase.
:::

## Question 1 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In client-side JavaScript, event objects has a method called `preventDefault()`. Explain the result of calling this method, and give a practical example of when you would need to call it (no need to write any code, just describe a practical example using words).

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

By calling `preventDefault()`, you tell the web browser to not do what it usually does when the event happens. For example, if the event is a click on a link, you tell the web browser to not fetch the webpage the link leads to by calling this method, but simply to do nothing instead.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for general description.
* 0.5 points for specific example.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 2 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

The code below does not work as it should (should count and display the number of paragraphs in the HTML code). Explain why it doesn't work as it should, and explain how the code should be altered to work as it should.

(no need to write any code, just explaining the changes that needs to be done to the code to make it work is enough)

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Paragraphs</title>
    <script>
        const paragraphs = document.querySelectorAll('p')
        const numberOfParagraphsSpan = document.getElementById('numberOfParagraphs')
        numberOfParagraphsSpan.innerHTML = paragraphs.length
    </script>
</head>
<body>
    <p>Para 1</p>
    <p>Para 2</p>
    <p>Para 3</p>
    <div>There are <span id="numberOfParagraphs"></span> paragraphs above.</div>
</body>
</html>
```

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The code doesn't work as intended because the JavaScript code will be executed before the Document Object Model has been loaded by the web browser (before the web browser has read/parsed all the HTML code). Consequently, `document.querySelectorAll('p')` will return no paragraphs, etc.

To make the code work as it should, the current JavaScript code needs to be executed after the Document Object Model has been loaded. That can be achieved by listening for the `DOMContentLoaded` event, and execute the JavaScript code above when that event has happened. 

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for explaining the problem.
* 0.5 points for describing a solution.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 3 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

The code below does not work as it should (display the sum of the numbers in the `<input>` elements in the `<span>` element when the `<button>` element is clicked). Explain why it doesn't work as it should, and explain how the code should be altered to work as it should.

(no need to write any code, just explaining the changes that needs to be done to the code to make it work is enough)

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Sum Computer</title>
    <script>
        const x = parseFloat(document.querySelector('#x').value || '0')
        const y = parseFloat(document.querySelector('#y').value || '0')
        document.querySelector('#computeButton').addEventListener('click', function(){
            document.querySelector('#sum').innerText = x+y
        })
    </script>
</head>
<body>
    <input id="x"> + <input id="y"> <button id="computeButton">=</button> <span id="sum"></span>
</body>
</html>
```

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The problem here is, as in the previous question, that the JavaScript code is executed before the Document Object Model has been loaded. Therefor (as an example), `document.querySelector('#x')` won't return a reference to one of the `<input>` elements. So, just as in the previous question, a solution can be to execute the code when the `DOMContentLoaded` event happens.

But then there is one more problem: the values from the `<input>` elements will only be read once (when the `DOMContentLoaded` event happens). So `x` and `y` will always be zero. To fix this, the lines of code creating these two variables needs to be moved into the click listener, so they are executed each time the user clicks on the `#computeButton`.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for `x` and `y` always 0.
* 0.5 points for moving the two lines of code into the click listener.
* -0.25 points for not mentioning the problem with JS code executed before DOM loaded.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 4 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Match each HTTP status code with its reason phrase.

Status codes: `200` `201` `400` `401` `405`

Reason Phrases: `Method Not Allowed` `OK` `Created` `Bad Request` `Unauthorized`

All needs to be matched right to get any points.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

`200` - `OK`\
`201` - `Created`\
`400` - `Bad Request`\
`401` - `Unauthorized`\
`405` - `Method Not Allowed`

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for all correct.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 5 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In an HTTP request, information can be passed both in the body of the request and in the query string. Explain when you should use which one.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

If the information is used to identify which resource the request is about, the information should be passed in the query string, so it's part of the URI.

Otherwise, if the information is part of a resource the client sends to a server, it should be passed in the body of the request.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for when it should be sent in the query string.
* 0.5 points for when it should be sent in the body.
OR
* 0.25 points for saying something like "`POST`/`PUT`=body, `GET`/`DELETE`=query string".

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 6 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what the HTTP headers `Content-Type` and `Accept` are used for.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The `Content-Type` header is used in HTTP requests and responses to tell the receiver in which data format the body of the request/response is written in.

The `Accept` header is used in HTTP requests to specify which data format the body in the HTTP response should (preferably) be written in.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.25 points for what `Content-Type` is used for.
* 0.25 points for `Content-Type` used in requests and responses.
* 0.25 points for what `Accept` is used for.
* 0.25 points for `Accept` is only used in requests.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 7 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what a docker container and a docker image is.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A *Docker Image* is a description of everything needed to run an application, including which operating system to use, which libraries the application needs, the code for the application, the command to start the application, etc.

A *Docker Container* is something we can use to run a Docker Image (by extension to run the application in the image) in an isolated environment.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for correct Docker Image explanation (app, code, libs, etc.).
* 0.5 points for correct Docker Container explanation (run an image/the app in the image).
* -0.25 points for not mentioning what an image consists of.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>





## Question 8 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Is it easier to scale an application *vertically* or *horizontally*? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Horizontal scaling is when you run your application on multiple machines at the same time. Setting up this is hard, since you need to coordinate which machine to carry out which job (i.e. have a load balancer) and to synchronize the application's state across the different machines.

Vertical scaling is when you run your application on a more powerful machine. This scaling approach is easy: just buy a more powerful machine, no need to worry about synchronizing the application's state or to distribute the work that should be carried out. However, it is more limited, since you can't scale as much as in horizontal scaling, so it is harder to scale more.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 point for correct answer and motivating why horizontal is harder (requires description of both ways).

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 9 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

To prevent SQL injections, one should usually not create SQL queries with input from the client like this:

```js
// ...
const enteredAge = request.body.age
const query = "SELECT * FROM accounts WHERE age = "+enteredAge
// ...
```

But if we in the HTML code use `<input name="age" type="number">` instead of `<input name="age" type="text">`, then users can only enter numbers in the input field, and with just numbers one can't modify the SQL query to give it another meaning than what was intended. So if one uses `<input name="age" type="number">` in the HTML code, is it safe to insert the entered value directly into the query, as done above? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

No, inserting client-side provided values directly into an SQL query is never secure, even if `type="number"` is used, because when the server receives the request, there's no way for the server to know that the request actually came from the submission of the form, or if a hacker has crafted his own manual request where he has written a value that is not a number.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer and justification.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 10 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what MVC is, which parts it consists of and what each part is used for. Then also explain how web applications use MVC.

Don't write any code.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

MVC is a design pattern describing a way to design/structure the code for the graphical user interface part of an application.

The MVC design pattern consists of three different parts: models, views and controllers.

* A *Model* contains the data that should be visualized in the GUI.
* A *View* contains the code that visualizes the data in a Model. 
* A *Controller* picks which Model and View that should be used, and also listen for user interaction in the View and do what the user wants when the interactions happens, such as changing the data in the Model or using another View.

When web applications make use of the MVC design pattern, Controllers listen for incoming HTTP requests, and when they receive one, they create a Model with the data that should be sent back, and then passes that data to a View, which embeds it in HTML code, and then the Controller sends back the HTML code from the View.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for what MVC is.
* 0.33 points for each part name and description of each part.
* 0.5 points for how web applications makes use of MVC (controllers use HTTP, Views produces HTML).

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 11 (3p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what a three-layered architecture is, which parts it consists of and what each part is used for. Then also explain how web applications use a three-layered architecture.

Don't write any code.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A three-layered architecture is a way organize the code of an application in three different layers, each with their own responsibilities:

* The *Data Access Layer* contains the code for storing and retrieving the data the application needs to store. It usually provides CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations for this.
* The *Business Logic Layer* contains the code for carrying out the tasks the user wants, such as computing for how many days the user has been using the application, computing how much the user should pay for the products put in a shopping bag, etc. It also contains authorization (for example, only allow the user to use the application if the user has paid for the application of if the test period is not yet over) and validation (e.g. checking if data entered in forms are valid).
* The *Presentation Layer* is responsible for implementing an interface through which the application can be used, for example a graphical user interface that humans can use. When the interfaced is used (for example a button is clicked), the Presentation Layer asks the Business Logic Layer to execute the task the button is associated with.

In web applications, the Presentation Layer is responsible for receiving HTTP requests, and then ask the Business Logic Layer to carry out the requests. The Data Access Layer often store the data in a database. The Presentation Layer is also responsible for generating the HTTP response to send back, containing the HTML and CSS code the web browser use to display the webpage in the response.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.5 points for what it is.
* 0.25 points for each part name.
* 0.25 points for each part used for.
* 0.5 points for how web app use it.
* 0.5 points for good quality answers.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 12 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In a three-layered architecture, if you would add code fetching data from another server (e.g. via a REST API), in which layer would you put that code? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Since the code has nothing to do with implementing an interface through which the user can use our application, it certainly doesn't belong to the Presentation Layer. Further more, if we put the code here, we would need o duplicate it if we implement one more Presentation Layer later.

The name Data Access Layer suggest it should be put there. But if it is, and we later need to change the implementation of the Data Access Layer (e.g. implement a new one since we want to store our data in a non-relational database instead of a relational database), then the code for fetching the data needs to be duplicated in our two Data Access Layers. This suggest it doesn't belong here either.

This leaves us with The Business Logic Layer as our only choice. By putting the code here, it can be re-used in multiple Presentation Layers, and we can implement multiple different Data Access Layers without having to worry about re-implementing it.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for justification for Business Logic Layer.
* 0.5 points for justification Data Access Layer.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 13 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

In a REST API, to delete all movies released year `1990`, one should send a `POST` request like this:

```http
POST /movies/delete HTTP/1.1
Host: the-server.com
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 14

{"year": 1990}
```

Is this a good or bad REST API design? Justify your answer.

(no need to think about security for this question).

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

No, that's not a good design of a REST API since it doesn't make proper use of HTTP:

* The request is about deleting a resource. Then the `DELETE` method should be used, and not the `POST` method.
* The URI should just identify the resource(s) the request is about. It should not contain `delete`.
* The body of the request is used to identify the resource(s) the request is about. It should be in the query string instead, i.e. the URI should be `/movies?year=1990`.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.33 points for correct method.
* 0.33 points for `delete` not in URI.
* 0.33 points for the body info in the query string.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 14 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain what a JWT is, which parts it consists of and what each part is used for. Make sure to mention all details so the reader understand why they are secure to use.


</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

A JSON Web Token (JWT) is a string that represents some data called *claims*. JWTs are self-contained, meaning the data is stored in the token itself (compared to other type of tokens that can be only identifiers for where the data is stored).

A JWT consists of three parts and has the format `aaa.bbb.ccc`:

* The `aaa` part is the Header. It contains meta information about the token, such as which type of token it is, and which algorithm that was used to compute the Signature (third part) of the token. This information is expressed as a JSON object, which then is encoded in Base64Url format.
* The `bbb` part is the Payload. It contains the claims the token represents. The claims are expressed as a JSON object, which then is encoded in Base64Url format.
* The `ccc` part is the Signature. The one who creates the token decides what should be put in the token (i.e. the `aaa` and `bbb` part), then it uses the algorithm specified in the Header to compute the Signature, which is a signed value of the `aaa.bbb` part. The creator can then use the Signature to verify that no one has changed the data in the token (e.g. compute it again in a token it receives, and see that it matches the Signature in the received token), i.e. the token was created by itself.

One way to compute the Signature is by hashing `aaa.bbb` concatenated with a secret string only the creator knows. This way, if a hacker changes the claims in the token after having received it, the creator will compute a different signature, and find the token invalid. For a hacker to make a valid token, she also needs to change the signature to a valid signature, but she can't do that since she doesn't know the secret string the creator is using.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0.25 points for "what it is" (`aaa.bbb.ccc` format, etc.).
* 0.25 points for each part name.
* 0.25 points for each part description.
* 0.25 points for answers that clearly explains why they are secure (among other things, that the server re-computes the signature each time it receives the token).

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 15 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain why REST API:s often need to send back not only an Access Token, but also an ID Token, when the user logs in.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

The client can use an Access Token for authorization, i.e. as a proof of having logged in to a specific account/be allowed to do some specific things. But it contains no information for the clients to figure out which account the user logged in to. For that, the client needs to check the data in the ID Token, and (for example), find out the account's id and can thereafter fetch resources belonging to that account.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct explanation.
* -0.25 points for saying ID Tokens are more secure.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>



## Question 16 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Does an ID Token have to be a JWT? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Yes, according to the OpenID Connect specification ID Token must be implemented as JSON Web Tokens.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer and valid justification.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>





## Question 17 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Out of SOP and CORS, which one improves web security the most? Justify your answer.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

Same-Origin Policy (SOP) makes web browsers more secure than Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) does. SOP forbids most cross-site requests. CORS on the other hand rather makes web browsers less secure, since it relaxes SOP (i.e. allows some cross-site requests SOP wouldn't allow).

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 2 point for correct answer and valid justification.
* -0.25 points for answering with an "opinion".

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 18 (2p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

Explain why web browsers don't allow cross-site requests (unless CORS is supported by the server receiving the cross-site request or the request is a "simple request") by giving an example of how a hacker could take advantage of it. No need to show any code, just describing how a hacker could try to take advantage of it using words is enough, but be sure to mention details.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

If web browsers would allow all cross-site requests, then a hacker could setup his own website with some bad client-side code taking advantage of this:

1. The hacker manages to trick a user to visit his website (for example by sending an email to the user containing a link to his website, which the user clicks on).
2. The website opens in the user's web browser, which executes the website's client-side code.
3. The client-side code tells the web browser to send an HTTP GET request for the user's Facebook account (the user has already logged in to the Facebook account before, and the web browser remembers this in a cookie), and get back details about the Facebook account others should not be able to see.
4. The client-side code tells the user's web browser to sends this information in an HTTP request to the hackers server.
5. The server stores the information.
6. The hacker logins on his server and read the sensitive information.

Since web browsers don't allow cross-site requests, (3) described above doesn't work, and a hacker can't do this.

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 0 points for just saying something like "hacker can get sensitive information" without any details.
* 0.66 points for hacker have put bad client-side code on a website.
* 0.66 points for that the hacker must trick the user to that website.
* 0.66 points for what the back client-side code does.

::: warning Note!
Answers that make it sound like hackers could exploit this on any website is at most rewarded 0.66 points.
:::

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 19 (4p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

The function `getBookById(id, callback)` can be used to fetch a book with a specific id asynchronously from the server like this:

```js
getBookById(3, function(book, error){
    if(error){
        // Couldn't fetch the book.
    }else{
        // Do something with the book.
    }
})
```

Create the function `getTwoBooksById(id1, id2, callback)`, that fetches the books with the given ids and then calls the callback function, so it can be used like this:

```js
getTwoBooksById(4, 7, function(book1, book2, error){
    if(error){
        // Couldn't fetch both books.
    }else{
        // Do something with the books.
    }
})
```

The callback function should be called only one time, and if any book can't be fetched, `book1` and `book2` should be `null`, and `error` should be the error `getBookById()` sent back.

Implement two different versions of `getTwoBooksById(id1, id2, callback)`, one that fetches the books in parallel, and one that fetches books in sequential order (e.g. starts to fetch the book with `id2` when it has fetched the book with `id1`). Indicate which version is which.

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
// Parallel version.
function getTwoBooksById(id1, id2, callback){
    
    let book1 = null
    let error1 = null
    let book2 = null
    let error2 = null
    
    getBookById(id1, function(book, error){
        book1 = book
        error1 = error
        sendBackIfDone()
    })
    getBookById(id2, function(book, error){
        book2 = book
        error2 = error
        sendBackIfDone()
    })
    
    let hasSentBack = false
    function sendBackIfDone(){
        if(!hasSentBack){
            const error = error1 || error2
            if(error){
                callback(null, null, error)
                hasSentBack = true
            }else if(book1 && book2){
                callback(book1, book2, null)
                hasSentBack = true
            }
        }
    }
    
}

// Sequential version.
function getTwoBooksById(id1, id2, callback){
    
    getBookById(id1, function(book1, error1){
        if(error1){
            callback(null, null, error1)
        }else{
            getBookById(id2, function(book2, error2){
                if(error2){
                    callback(null, null, error2)
                }else{
                    callback(book1, book2, null)
                }
            })
        }
    })
    
}

```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

Parallel version:

* 0.5 points for sending requests in parallel.
* 1.5 points for also using callback correct.

Sequential version:

* 0.5 points for sending requests sequentially.
* 1.5 points for also using callback correct.

For each version:

* -0.1 point for missing function keyword.
* -0.1 points for not using const/let/var correct.
* -0.25 points for code duplication.
* -0.25 points for passing wrong type of values to callback.
* -0.5 points for mixing parallel and sequential.
* -0.5 points for callback being called multiple times.

* -0.25 points for not using loop.
* -0.1 points for not write loop header correct.
* -0.1 points for using global variable.
* -0.1 points for indentation error.
* -0.1 points for spelling mistake in function/variable.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>




## Question 20 (1p)
<ExamQuestion>
<template v-slot:question>

The asynchronous function `getUserById(userId)` returns back a promise and can be used like this:

```js
getUserById(3).then(function(user){
    console.log(user.username)
}).catch(function(error){
    console.log("Could not fetch the user.")
})
```

Now Alice wants you to implement the function `getUserByIdWithCallback(userId, callback)`, which should call `getUserById(userId)`, and then call the `callback` function with appropriate values. Implemented properly, one should be able to use it like this:

```js
getUserByIdWithCallback(3, function(user, error){
    if(error){
        console.log("Could not fetch the user.")
    }else{
        console.log(user.username)
    }
})
```

</template>
<template v-slot:sample-answer>

```js
function getUserByIdWithCallback(id, callback){
    getUserById(3).then(function(user){
        callback(user, null)
    }).catch(function(error){
        callback(null, error)
    })
}
```

</template>
<template v-slot:marking-guidelines>

* 1 point for correct answer.
* -0.1 for passing wrong error to callback.

</template>
</ExamQuestion>